The highly anticipated Cycling Lagos 2018 scheduled for August 25 has received the backing of the Elizade Auto Land’s brand, Jac Motors; Nigeria’s leading FM radios, Cool FM, Wazobia FM and Nigeria Info. Leading beverages firm, Seven-Up Bottling Company has also confirmed an arrangement to refresh all participants with its H2Oh brand during the event. Chairman, Cycling Lagos, Mr. Soji Adeleye who disclosed this in a statement in Lagos described the level of supports the event is enjoying from stakeholders in the country and abroad as highly impressive. “The Cycling Lagos event is a success already with the level of support coming from partners within and outside the country; some of theseshould equally be unveiledin the coming days. I am very impressed and I want to thank all our partners for sharing in thethemes  and the vision of the event to promote healthy lifestyle, fitness andchampion the creation ofan enabling environment for Nigerians to imbibe in the spirit of sharing” he said. Adeleye who urged interested participants to register for the event online on http://www.cyclinglagos.com/register/said the online registration which began on July 20 would close on August 10. Leading Hospitality Company, Eko Hotels & Suites recently signed a partnership arrangement with the organizers to host the events Award Gala Night and provide accommodation for guests at the dinner scheduled to hold on August 25. In addition, the Professional Race of the Cycling event will start from the magnificent surrounding of the marquee hotel in Victoria Island, Lagos. The competition which will involve over 1,000 cyclists from within and outside Nigeria has been described by the organisers as one of the biggest sports, tourism and entertainment events in the country and the entire Africa continent in recent time. The Cycling Lagos 2018 is also supported by the Lagos Government, Lagos State Cycling Association, DStv, SuperSport, Leadway Assurance Company, Addefort Limited and WorldStage Group.