WorldStage Newsonline– Gov. Akinwunmi Ambode of Lagos State on Saturday commended the Ikorodu monarch, Oba Kabiru Shotobi, the Ayangburen of Ikorodu at his 3rd year anniversary, for his contributions towards stability and development in the community. Ambode who at the anniversary also commissioned the new Ayangburen Palace in Ikorodu built by indigenes and well-wishers of the community. The Governor said that the monarch contributed greatly during the era of Badoo attacks in the community by deploying  appropriate strategies and working with the security agencies to stem the tide and he urged residents of the community to continue to support him. “His Royal Majesty is a good son of the soil; somebody like that, I am sure if the community supports him in return, he will continue with his fatherly role in ensuring peace and stability in Ikorodu,’’ Ambode said. The governor was represented at the occasion by Mr Muslim Folami, Commissioner for Local Government Affairs. Also speaking at the occasion, the Speaker, Lagos State House of Assembly, Mr Mudashiru Obasa, also commended the monarch for his contributions towards the infrastructural and economic development of Ikorodu. Obasa, however, urged the monarch to promote and encourage his subjects in the use of the Yoruba language and traditional practices because Ikorodu residents should be custodians of culture and tradition in Lagos State. “I am delighted to be part of this programme being among the first set of chiefs after the coronation and Kabiyesi invited us to lay the foundation of this palace and I am happy to be part of the coronation anniversary and its commissioning. “Kabiyesi should encourage Ikorodu people to use the Yoruba language, especially during occasions like these, as custodians of our culture and heritage, regardless of their social backgrounds. “Many developed communities in the world make use of their local languages as a means of communication,’’ Obasa said. In his welcome address, Oba Kabiru Shotobi, Adegorushen V, Ayangburen of Ikorodu, commended residents and indigenes of the community for their support since his ascension to the throne as the paramount king of Ikorodu. The monarch promised to work for the exploration of the community’s unharnessed potentials and see that the community evolves into a great city in Lagos State. He said that the re-development of the palace was borne out of the necessity to enhance the status of Ikorodu. “This event is a great opportunity for me to thank the Governor, who has brought notable infrastructural development to Ikorodu, in particular, and Lagos State, in general. The anniversary was attended by party leaders, community leaders and top government officials.