WorldStage Newsonline– The Chief of Air Staff of the Nigeria Air Force (NAF), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar has called on all personnel to maintain physical fitness; saying their fitness is important to the country. The CAS who made this remark in Abuja on Saturday during the NAF 2018 third quarter route match exercise, said the quarterly exercise is going on simultaneously across the NAF in all units. Represented by Chief of Policy and Plan, Air vice Marshal Muhammad Mohammed, the CAS noted that physical fitness of the NAF personnel is very vital to the country because they stand in to fight for people who cannot fight for themselves. He said: that fact that you have taken part of the exercise and to your reasonable doubt, then you are physically fit willing able and ready to serve this nation mean a lot to us, this is an indication that this huge number of personnel are available to serve this nation. The CAS, however urged the NAF personnel to continue to train ahead for the next quarter exercise. The general fitness exercise was aimed at improving the general fitness of the NAF to be in shape and combatant readiness. Members of the National Youth Service Corps were part of the personnel for the route match exercise. He said, “Remember you are not the only people that are in the air force, they are some that couldn’t attend this exercise because they are sick some for exigency that fact that you have taken part of the exercise and to your reasonable doubt then you are physically fit willing able and ready to serve e this nation mean a lot to us this is an indication that this huge number of personnel are available to serve this nation. “These are men and women that fight for people that cannot fight for themselves. This is a quarterly exercise it takes part simultaneously across the Nigeria air force in all units. “If you take part of this exercise you have convince yourself that you are fit, you have given us reason to believe that the men and women are physically fit and you ae assuring this county that they have very physically fit men and women  in the Nigeria air force. “This is important to us, it’s very important to the country. I enjoin you to continue to train for the next quarterly exercise.”