WorldStage Newsonline– The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has said that the  Currency Swap Agreement between the bank and the People’s Bank of China (PBoC), will not make Nigeria a dumping ground for substandard goods. The CBN while sensitising importers and exporters in the North  Central Zone at a workshop on Wednesday at the Abuja International Trade Fair Complex, said it’s working with all relevant regulatory agencies, Standard Organisation of Nigeria, Consumer Protection, to ensure that the Chinese importer is a known one that adheres to global standard. The CBN and the PBOC signed a Bilateral Currently Swap Agreement valid for an initial period of three years which the two bank can extend by mutual consent. Under the agreement the parties swapped CNY15 billion which is equivalent to about NGN720 billion and US$2.5 billion. Acting Director, Corporate Communications Department, CBN, Mr Isaac Okorafor, said the swap deal was aimed at ensuring that manufacturers who are small and medium get their spare parts easily without having to suffer the cost and delay involved in moving from one currency from Naira to the Dollar and from the Dollar back to Reminbi. He said: “If you are exporting from Nigeria, you will receive your money in Naira, if you are importing from China,  you pay in the Reminbi and the Chinese person will receive his money in Reminbi. As trade goes on, both amounts will be depleting, any one who finishes his own can ask for additional funding and it will happen at a rate that is agreed. “You are not going to see any cash, there is no cash, Reminbi will not be sold in the black market, it will be wired electronically and it is only for imports that originates from China. “This currency Swap is part of a coherent and internally consistent strategy that started with the new foreign exchange market that we put in place and all the other efforts that we have put in place to ensure that we reduce our dependence on the dollar and to be able to manage our foreign exchange reserve to build it up and to be able to give confidence to our economy.”. On his part, President of Council, Abuja Chamber of Commerce and Industry (ACCI), Prince Adetokunbo Kayode, noted that the Swap Agreement by the government will enable Nigerians doing business with China to pay in Reminbi to make doing business easy. He expressed belief that the effort of the CBN at instituting the Swap Agreement, showed the interest of government in promoting trade of Nigerians both import and export, adding that if the government continues to implement policies that will favour the people, the economy will continue to expand and growth will increasing to bring about a buoyant economy. On operationalizing the Swap, the Asistant Director, Financial Markets Department, CBN, Mr. Oreva Eweh, said that the user is supposed to negotiate his invoice in Yuan from China and the request will be submitted to his banker who sends the request to CBN whenever there is Yuan intervention, noting that the Yuan market will be held once every two weeks according to the regulations. On the pricing, he explained that the currency pair is CNY/NGN, stating that to get the Yuan/Naira rate, one has to know the exchange rate of the Dollar to the Yuan, then multiply, before converting to the Naira equivalent. “So far, there has been improvements, when we did the first intervention, we had customers from 11 banks and when we did the second one, we had customers from 17 banks and more banks have opened their corresponding banks where the Yuan will be moved to before the exporter can receive their money. By the next intervention, hopefully we will see more than 20 banks coming to that window. This shows that people are beginning to appreciate and I urge you to embrace the window because there is much benefit in it,” he said. CBN however noted that Bureau de Change Operators are not eligible to take part in the transaction as cash transactions would not be allowed under the window.