The Lagos State Government (LASG) has reassured prospective home-owners that they will celebrate the next Christmas in their new homes, saying allocation of the houses will start in October. The state Commissioner for Housing, Mr Gbolahan Lawal, said this after an inspection tour of some of the housing projects in parts of the state on Wednesday. Lawal said that the initial pre-qualification arrangement toward the allocation of some housing units to beneficiaries had begun. He listed the estates ready for allocation to include: Phase II of the Oba Adegboruwa Estate, Igbogbo in Ikorodu; Amowo-Odofin Housing Scheme and the Igando Gardens Estate. The commissioner said, “The Amuwo-Odofin Housing Scheme   has 84 units, Igbogbo 2B has 360 units, while the Igando Gardens Estate has 492 units. For those that applied for those estates, I want to assure them that they are going to celebrate Christmas in those apartments. He said that the state government had shortlisted some would-be beneficiaries for the Rent-to-Own Housing Policy and the Lagos Mortgage Board was working on perfecting their documents. “I want to assure you that these estates should be ready before the last quarter of this year,’’ he said. Lawal said that the Igando Gardens Estate had 41 blocks of 492 units of one, two and three bedrooms. He said that the project was 95 per cent completed adding that the sewage treatment plant would be ready for use before October. The commissioner also said that some of the blocks at the Igando Gardens Estate which was started during the administration former Gov. Bola Tinubu in 2005 needed rehabilitation. He added that the state government had to construct a major road leading to the estate to make it more accessible to its would-be occupiers. “The road has a major challenge for the allotees. The Lagos State Government is fixing the major road that leads into the estate, and that will be an incentive to them. “It will also ginger us to fix other infrastructure within the estate,’’ he said.