In line with its Corporate Social Responsibility, the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) has partnered with the Nigerian Heart Foundation (NHF) to assist the Non-Governmental Organization (NGO) in creating awareness on the dangers of heart diseases and the effect on the well-being of people. This was made known by the Director General of the Agency Dr. Dakuku Peterside Yesterday, at a Press Conference held in Lagos in preparation for the NHF Charity Golf tournament scheduled to hold on 1st September 2018, in Port-Harcourt, Rivers state. The DG who was represented at the event by the Head, Corporate Communications of the Agency, Mr. Isichei Osamgbi charged Nigerians to ensure that they take on physical exercises as a means to prevent the risk of heart related diseases, stating that heart health is important to the overall well-being of the human body. “Heart related diseases affects all gender and all ages and cuts across all socio economic and geographic lines”- Dr. Peterside said. The CEO NIMASA stated further that the Agency is Partnering with NHF as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) focus and is delighted to be working with the foundation in its drive towards raising awareness on heart related diseases. “NIMASA as a corporate socially responsible Agency is glad to participate and lend its voice via this platform put together by NHF,  towards awareness on heart related diseases to help save lives”. Also speaking at the press conference, the Executive Director, NHF, Dr. Kingsley Akinroye noted that in its bid to reduce and prevent cardiovascular related diseases in our population, plans are underway to raise the sum of N100m form the Charity Tournament, to help raise the awareness. Dr. Akinroye further expressed his appreciation to the Management of NIMASA for keeping their mandate alive in the support for wellness in every sector. He also called on individuals, Golfers, Corporate bodies and government agencies to partner and support the foundation. On his part, the Captain of the Port Harcourt Golf Club, Mr. Chris Allogoa, thanked NIMASA for its support to the foundation golf tournament, noting that more corporate organisations should emulate the NIMASA challenge to help develop sports and save life. It is worthy of note that NIMASA has continuously promoted wellness in the Maritime sector. This was evident when the Agency invited Stakeholders to an enlightenment programme on the dangers of Hepatitis during the staff awareness on Hepatitis recently. NIMASA is Nigeria’s maritime regulatory agency, working hard on its mandate to achieve and sustain safe, secure shipping, cleaner oceans and enhanced maritime capacity in line with global best practices towards Nigeria’s economic development.