WorldStage Newsonline– Gov. Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa has confirmed the death of his mother, Mrs Gold Coast Dickson at the age of 72 . The governor, in a statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Francis Agbo on Thursday said the late Gold Coast died of cancer in the early hours of Thursday. She died at the University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Centre, Houston, Texas, United States where she had been receiving treatment. Dickson expressed appreciation to the centre, especially the team of medical professionals who did their best to save the life of his mother. Dickson also thanked family members, friends, political associates and Nigerians generally for their prayers and support in the most trying times for the Dickson family. “Until her death, she was a quintessential mother, devout Christian and community leader who devoted her lifetime to the service of God and humanity. “Condolence registers have been opened in Government House, Yenagoa, the Governor’s residences in Opolo, Yenagoa and Toru-Orua Community in Sagbama LGA, Bayelsa “Also the condolence register is available at Bayelsa State Liaison Office (IZON Warri) in Abuja and Governor’s Lodge, Asokoro, Abuja. Funeral details will be announced by the family at a later date,” the statement said. Former Lagos governor and All Progressives Congress National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, has commiserated with Bayelsa State Governor Seriake Dikson over the passing of his mother, Madam Gold Coast Dickson. In a statement on Thursday by his Media Office in Lagos, Asiwaju who said he understood how it felt like to lose a mother, having also experienced same, urged Governor Dickson to take solace in the life of service to humanity his mother lived. The short statement reads: “I commiserate with Bayelsa State Governor Seriake Dickson over the passing of his mother, Madam Gold Coast Dickson. Losing somebody dear to us like a mother can be difficult. I know how it feels because I have been through that way, having lost my mum. “We must, however, be consoled by the memories of the time they spent with us. Mama is said to be a woman of substance who lived a life of service to humanity. “She has done well for us by gifting the nation a wonderful son like Governor Dickson.  I pray that God grant Madam Dickson eternal rest and give the family the strength to endure this period”.