WorldStage Newsonline– The Not Too Young To Run Movement on Wednesday in Abuja threatened to mobilize 50 million young Nigerians to vote out political parties that reject its demands which include to uphold democratic and direct party primaries; reduce cost of party nomination form for office and allow young persons with disabilities ticket to contest in parliament. Convener of the movement, Samson Itodo stated this during a solidarity match to political office in Abuja to mark the National Day of Action on Youth Candidacy and Democratic Party Primaries. He urged political parties to accede to the demands of the youth as the youth constitute 60% of registered voters. Itodo said any political party that care for youth vote in 2019 should act on the Not Too Young To Run Law. He said, “Firstly party needs to take intentional steps give young women, young men, young persons with disabilities tickets and we have placed that demands in the declaration. “The declaration is very clear, for all legislative seats we need 30% of legislative seat across the country as well as 109 seat in the federal house, because if democracy is about majority we constitute majority of the voters and so it’s important that the party take it to heart and they take it serious. “The second is we have demanded that party should uphold democratic and direct party primaries, young Nigerian have raising to tell political parties; we say no to automatics party tickets; we say no to candidate imposition because it undermines our democracy and reduces the competitiveness of electoral politics. “The third is reducing the cost for running for office, the party need to reduce the cost. Reasons why people go into politics because when they get in to power their major task is to recoup the money that they have spent. Nigerians are saying No; reduce the cost for running for office.” On what the movement will do if their requests are not meet, Itodo said, “Its suicidal for any political party not to heed to our request, the national assembly tried it and they saw the consequence, presidency almost tried it they saw the consequence. Do not take the Nigerian Youth for granted we are patriotic citizen and we will not take arms between ourselves we will assert our sovereignty through the ballot.” On his part, Convener of Raising New Voices, Jude Feranmi, said the “Young people have an agenda and it’s clear we want education for our young people across the nation and in 2019 that’s what are voting for. “Political parties that will give young people ticket are the once we will support, because if you are young and in parliament you will feel the pain of young people. So that agenda is clear for young people across the Not Too Young To Run Movement across the entire country”, he said. Member of the movement, Hamzat Lawal, said its quite exciting that with the defection among political party members the young people were not carried away, adding that the young Nigerians are now wiser because they are tired of the status quo. He said: “For us we want to see real democratic change were young people, old and young will enjoy the dividend of democracy. “This is quit historic because it’s happening in the 36 state simultaneously and we are taking our demands to them to say if you don’t give young people ticket we will not vote for you.”