Eight African comedy stars will on Sunday, August 12, 2018, storm Accra, Ghana for Glo Laffta Fest. It promises to be an evening of unlimited fun and entertainment. The show is slated for the Fantasy Dome, Trade Fair Centre, Accra. The comics will be joined on the entertainment stage by three Nollywood stars and world-class Ghanaian boxer and Glo Influencer, Samir Bastie, in a show designed to change the face of entertainment in Ghana. According to a statement by Globacom Nigerian comedians that will be performing at the show include foremost comic, Basketmouth, the Bishop of Osusu Ministry, Gordons, the stormy petrel of Nigeria’s comedy space, Bovi Ugboma and the black-skinned jokes merchant, Seyi Law. Also joining them is Uganda’s Patrick Salvador Idringi, better known as, Salvador and three Ghanaian comedians, namely, Jacinta, DKB and Foster Romanus, simply known as Foster in comedy circles. Nollywood’s most celebrated actresses, Uche Jombo and Juliet Ibrahim will anchor the show, while Nollywood legend, Richard Mofe-Damijo (RMD) and the Ghanaian pugilist, Samir Bastie, will make celebrity guest appearances. “The Ghana Glo Laffta Fest promises to be a reference point in the history of entertainment not only in Ghana but in the entire West Coast of Africa as we have stretched the boundary of fun beyond the West African sub-region to include artistes from East Africa so that our esteemed subscribers in Ghana and new customers will have a taste of the world-class entertainment Globacom has been providing for its customers,” the statement added. Ghana’s most celebrated female DJ, Kess, will be on duty at the show. Globacom said the show is a way of rewarding its subscribers as the show is in principle free of charge. All a subscriber in Ghana needs to do to attend the show is to use GHc20 on voice or GHc30 on both voice and data within 30 days while new subscribers can also come to the venue of the show and instantly join the network to enjoy an evening of fun.” The Glo Laffta Fest event of Sunday, August 12 will be followed by the Glo Mega Music, a purely music concert show, on Saturday, August 25, 2018 at the same venue.