WorldStage Newsonline– The Ghanaian born top diplomat and former United Nations secretary-general, Kofi Annan, has died at the age of 80. His foundation announced his death in Switzerland on Saturday in a tweet, saying he died after a short unspecified illness. “Wherever there was suffering or need, he reached out and touched many people with his deep compassion and empathy,” the foundation said in a statement. Annan spent virtually his entire career as an administrator in the United Nations. His aristocratic style, cool-tempered elegance and political savvy helped guide his ascent to become its seventh secretary-general, and the first hired from within. He served two terms from Jan. 1, 1997, to Dec. 31, 2006, capped nearly mid-way when he and the U.N. were jointly awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 2001. During his tenure, Annan presided over some of the worst failures and scandals at the world body, one of its most turbulent periods since its founding in 1945. Challenges from the outset forced him to spend much of his time struggling to restore its tarnished reputation. His enduring moral prestige remained largely undented, however, both through charisma and by virtue of having negotiated with most of the powers in the world. When he departed from the United Nations, he left behind a global organization far more aggressively engaged in peacekeeping and fighting poverty, setting the framework for the U.N.’s 21st-century response to mass atrocities and its emphasis on human rights and development. “Kofi Annan was a guiding force for good,” current U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said. “It is with profound sadness that I learned of his passing. In many ways, Kofi Annan was the United Nations. He rose through the ranks to lead the organization into the new millennium with matchless dignity and determination.” The UN Migration Agency called him “a great man, a leader, and a visionary.” AFDB MOURNS NOBEL PEACE PRIZE LAUREATE KOFI A. ANNAN Abidjan, Côte d’Ivoire, 18 August 2018  – The African Development Bank has learned with deep sadness the news of the death of Kofi A. Annan, former Secretary General of the United Nations and Noble Peace Prize Laureate, at the age of 80 in Bern, Switzerland. “With Mr. Kofi Annan’s passing, Africa and the entire world has lost its finest diplomat, champion of world peace and development advocate, leaving a void which will be hard to fill,” President of the African Development Bank, Akinwumi Adesina said.  “Today, the international community is mourning a man of great humility and righteousness; a formidable architect behind critical peace brokering agreements around the world. His leadership on spearheading the Millennium Development Goals, made poverty eradication an achievable global imperative. He touched the lives of everyone he met with his dignity and quiet resolve. We stand with his dear wife, Nane, family and friends at this time and express our heartfelt condolences”, Adesina added. For the African Development Bank, Mr. Kofi Annan held a special place on several of the Bank’s initiatives. He was a staunch advocate of the Bank’s ‘New Deal on Energy for Africa’, a partnership-driven effort which aims to achieve universal access to energy in Africa by 2025. He was appointed as the “Champion” of the New Deal on Energy for Africa. In 2016, Mr Annan co-chaired the Special Panel on Accelerating the Implementation of the African Development Bank’s Ten Year Strategy, launched by President Adesina. He spearheaded several initiatives on Africa, including his chairmanship of the Africa Progress Panel and the Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa (AGRA). In April 2001, in Abuja, Nigeria, at a summit of African leaders, Mr. Kofi Annan made the first explicit public call for a new funding mechanism, proposing the creation of The Global Fund, to be dedicated to the battle against HIV/AIDS and other infectious diseases. He made the first contribution to the Global Fund in 2001. Kofi Annan was Africa’s global icon. He will be greatly missed. AFDB PRESIDENT, AKINWUMI ADESINA EULOGIZES KOFI A. ANNAN It is with much sadness that I learnt today of the death of Mr. Kofi A. Annan, the former Secretary General of the United Nations. He was a great personal mentor and father to me. His simplicity, decency, uncommon humility, selflessness and compassion made him a gem for humanity. A distinguished gentleman. He was a global icon and a man of peace who stood firmly in support of good governance and accountability for leaders. He was my boss as Chairman of the Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa (AGRA), when I was the Vice President for AGRA. He had an infectious passion for ending hunger and poverty in Africa. He greatly supported me when I was Minister of Agriculture in Nigeria, when he served as a member of the Eminent Persons Group that helped to support the transformation of agriculture in Nigeria. He energetically co-Chaired the High-level Panel of global leaders to support the African Development Bank in its efforts to accelerate Africa’s development. As U.N. Secretary General and throughout a distinguished career, Mr. Annan made Africa stand tall globally. Africa has lost a great gem. I will greatly miss him and his rich words of wisdom. May his soul rest in peace. TRIBUTE TO KOFI ANNAN FROM ASIWAJU BOLA AHMED TINUBU The death of former Secretary-General of United Nations and Noble Peace Prize Laureate, Mr. Kofi Annan, in Bern, Switzerland today, August 18, 2018, is a loss to Africa and the entire world because of all that he represented. In his lifetime, Kofi Annan distinguished himself as an international statesman, global icon, finest diplomat and tireless champion of human rights for all. His diplomatic achievements, both before or after becoming the UN Secretary-General, are legion. Specifically, he will be remembered for his important contributions to the fight against HIV/AIDS epidemic, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa, and his commitment to defending vulnerable populations the world over, demonstrated by his key role in the development of the UN’s epoch-making Responsibility to Protect doctrine. His time at the UN was also remarkable for his role in ensuring stability of democratic governments in Africa and intervention in conflict resolution around the world aimed at achieving world peace. Kofi Annan spearheaded several initiatives on Africa, including his chairmanship of the Africa Progress Panel and the Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa (AGRA). He provided leadership in developing the Millennium Development Goals, which made poverty eradication an achievable global imperative. He lived true to his reputation and recognition as Noble Peace Prize Laureate because he was an advocate of world peace and development throughout. He was Africa’s gift to the world, a wonderful servant to the international community. He was also a loving husband and a doting father. He will be sorely missed, not only by his close family and friends, but by all Africans at home and in the Diaspora. On this day of his passing, I pay tribute to Kofi Annan, a truly modern statesman and an exemplar for all Africans who adhere to the principles of democracy, rule of law and justice for all. May his soul rest in perfect peace.