Wema Bank Plc, Nigeria’s most innovative bank, has launched a comprehensive Hospital Management Solution System designed to enhance day-to-day operations of hospitals in Nigeria by digitizing core administrative processes and patient data management in medical centres. The Hospital Management Solution System  is a one stop-shop single technology platform that enables patients make payment (Cash or card) at various cash points. It improves the daily operations of hospitals and medical centres by providing a simple, transparent, accountable and integrated solution for better returns for the hospitals and a seamless experience for the patient. It has the capacity to generate reports such as; accounting, revenue collections/volume, transactions, intelligence report, inventory management reports etc. Most hospital operations generate substantial amount of cash at any given time during operating hours but solution ensures a reduction or complete elimination of revenue losses due to pilferage, unaccountability and lack of adequate reporting. The solution runs via Point of Sale (PoS) terminals and will capture patient details, with the intent of providing proper monitoring, accountability and reconciliation of data. The Pos terminal is integrated at the backend to interact with the hospital ICT system. It also helps in effective management of patient history database. The customer’s Management module allows patient data to be captured and retrieved whenever the need arises. Using a customized card, patients data, customer’s transaction history, details and information are well archived for future references and encrypted via our unique Quick Response (QR) code system. The Pos Solution is customizable to have the look and feel of any hospital identity and can be re-designed to capture the unique revenue heads in the hospital. The pilot was launched in the University College Hospital (UCH) Ibadan, Oyo State, this week. The deployment of the management solution makes UCH the first public hospital in West Africa to become fully digital, with fully functional end-to-end digital offerings. Ademola Adebise, the Acting Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, noted that the Bank’s bid to become the most innovative bank in Nigeria drives it to deliver cutting-edge solutions that saves time and money and offers superior value to all stakeholders. “Our aim is to bring banking directly to our clients thus offering a holistic and integrated approach to financial services needs and other valuable convenience. The Hospital Management Solution System is a state of the art and affordable retail business solution that meets the limitations and challenges surrounding the hospital on turnover related business.” He added that, “Wema Bank Plc places a high premium on adding value to partner organizations. We have state-of-the-art IT solutions that are second to none and we are very well positioned to offer our clients access to the most modern electronic banking facilities.” The Bank’s keenness to consolidate its position as a leader in the digital banking space has seen it build a robust portfolio of digital solutions tailored to meet a diverse pool of customers and tailored to suit the dynamic lifestyles of students, budding entrepreneurs and young professionals. The Bank was the first to pioneer card control, a solution that allows customers secure their payment cards by locking and unlocking their cards directly from their mobile phones. It also offers USSD Banking through its *945# platform and attractive payment gateway solutions to merchants through its WebPay service. These achievements and solutions have earned the bank several other accolades including The Most Innovative Bank in Africa (2018), Excellence in Branchless Banking, Digital Banking Platform of the Year and Best and Innovative Digital Solution. In addition, the Bank was awarded the Best Digital Platform in Nigeria and the Best Mobile Banking APP by the respected World Finance Magazine.