WorldStage Newsonline– A group, Raising New Voice Initiative on Monday unveiled #BreakTheHoldCampaign; an initiative to identify and support the emergence and election of young competent Nigerians aspiring for parliament in 2019. The campaign is aimed at supporting candidate to get elected into parliament in support of Nigerians at home and Diaspora to co-funding the resources, both financial physical and material to ensure their election. Speaking during the official unveiling of the campaign in Abuja, the Convener, Jude Feranmi, said, “beyond any iota of doubt that those who claim to represent us as a Constituency in parliament are not in any way privy to our issues nor do they care about them. “Our organisation, Raising New Voices Initiative will be working to support the emergence and the election of young competent Nigerians who understand, as Martin Luther King Jnr likes to put it, the fierce urgency of now, into the House of Representatives in 2019 “We will be working with exactly 25 candidates cutting across the 6 geo-political zones in the country and across different political parties. They will be pursuing an agenda that cuts across 2 categories of reforms-sectoral reforms and governance reforms. Under sectoral reforms, this new caucus will focus on three sectors-Technology and Innovation, Economy and Education.” He said, under governance reforms, this new caucus will be focusing on reforms on Anti-Corruption, Civil Service reforms, with emphasis on the Nigeria Police Force and Lean Government. He said, “In more specific terms, the campaign is seeking between 200,000 and 250,000 Nigerians who will commit to giving their resources to the campaign at a minimum of N5000 and a maximum of N100, 000.” A representative of YIAGA, Ibrahim Faruk said, “For us after the passage of the ‘Not Too Young to Run’ deal which now a law, it is very important that we find avenue to support those who want to run for office, it’s not enough after all we have done to get the Not Too Young To Run passed into law in the country now and just to site back. “So this is one of the ways we can support young people who want to run for office 2019, especially with the Ready To Run Movement, which is inspiring, promoting and supporting young men and women persons with disability who want to run for office in 2019. “We have seen that Raising New Voices shares some of the same ideas that we share and that we have mutual areas of corporation. “So we are working with them to identify young people across the federal constituencies that they have selected making sure young people with character, competence and capacity registered on our platform go through the process of vetting, checking their background, and progress they have made in their campaign with their party and recommending them to receive the support from Raising New Voices.”