*Saraki calls for citizen engagement, increased vigilance, to combat forced abductions WorldStage Newsonline-- The Federal Government of Nigeria has said that the ongoing search for the 110 girls who were abducted from the Government Girls Science and Technical College (GGSTC), Dapchi, Yobe State, has been extended to the neighbouring countries. In a statement issued in Abuja on Friday, the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, said top military and security officials on Thursday travelled to the North-east to add more urgency to the search, which has now been extended beyond the North-east theatre. The officials include the nation's top military officer and Chief of Defence Staff, Gen. Abayomi Olonisakin; Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Ibok-Ete Ekwe Ibas; Chief of Army Staff; Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai and the Director-General of the Department of State Services, Alhaji Lawal Daura. They joined the Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, who had earlier relocated to the North-east, as well as the National Security Adviser (NSA), Maj.-Gen. Babagana Monguno (Rtd), who has also visited the theatre. The Federal Government had earlier released the names and other details of the 110 girls who have yet to be accounted for, following the attack on the GGSTC, Dapchi, Yobe State, on 19 Feb. 2018. The panel set up by the Federal Government to unravel the circumstances surrounding the abduction of the girls was inaugurated on Thursday by the NSA. MRS. SARAKI CALLS FOR CITIZEN ENGAGEMENT, INCREASED VIGILANCE, TO COMBAT FORCED ABDUCTIONS Meanwhile, the Wife of the Senate President and Chair, Forum of Senators’ Wives, Mrs. Toyin Saraki has emphasized the need for Nigerians  to be more vigilant and mindful of activities happening around their communities. According to a statement, Mrs. Saraki while responding to questions posed by newsmen on the recently reported  abduction of 110 girls from a school at Dapchi, Yobe State, at a post  courtesy call press parley at Kwara State House of Assembly, Ilorin  said, “Nigerians never expected that another abduction could happen again in  the country, given the lessons learnt with the Chibok girls. “No one ever actually believed that we will still see another forcible abduction again in the country after all the sufferings, tears, lamentations and efforts taken to rescue some of the Chibok girls. It is very hard to describe how I feel as a woman and mother about the development. “I want to recall what my husband the Senate President has said that  “every head must be counted and accounted for” – and with Nigeria having  registered some success by the release of some Chibok girls, it gives me  the hope that we will get back the Dapchi girls and reunite them with  their families. “I want to ask every Nigerian to be vigilant. If you notice that there are strange faces in your community that were not there before, or somebody is buying much more food than they buy normally, or you notice somebody sewing much more clothing material than they sew normally, please contact the security authorities, as somebody, somewhere, is catering for the needs of 110 more girls than they do normally. The sooner we can find them, get them back, the better for our humanity.” Mrs. Saraki has been a consistent advocate for improved Civil Registrations and Vital Statistics through health enhanced certifiable identity data capture such as the Personal Maternal and Child Health Records developed by the Wellbeing Foundation Africa.