WorldStageNewsonlene--- The Nasarawa State University has matriculated 5,200 students for 2017/2018 academic session. Prof. Muhammad Mainoma, the Vice-Chancellor of the university, in his address, warned the newly matriculated students to refrain from cultism and others social vices in the society. Mainoma, represented by Prof. Inuwa Fodio, Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic), of the university, said that cultism, examination malpractice and others vices had affected the education sector negatively in the country. He called on the students to avoid bad companies in order to excel in their academic pursuits. “First and foremost, as we are aware that matriculation ceremonies are indeed occasions to solemnise the formal admission of students into education programmes in the same way that new members of a society, association are initiated. “From today, your academic pursuits, social, cultural and religious associations must be governed by the laws and tradition of this university. “And you are advised to carefully familarise yourselves with these laws and regulations for your benefit. “I congratulate and advice you and others students to refrain from indulging in cultism, drug abuse, examination malpractice and others vices capable of ending your academic career as well as tarnish the image of the institution.. “You are also advice to live in peace and should display a resilient capacity to be tolerant with each other’’, the vice chancellor advised. According to him, cultism, examination malpractice and others social vices have affected our lives, the education sector and the socioeconomic development of the country negatively. The VC warned all the students against negative act, adding that the institution would not condone any negative behaviour in its campus. Mainoma assured the students that the institution would continue to initiate good policies that would improve on their standard of education. He reinstated the commitment of the university to provide an enabling environment to improve on their standard of education and welfare. He also advised the students to take their studies very serious in order to excel in their academic pursuits and complement their parents/governments’ huge investment in their education. Alhaji Bala Ahmed, Registrar of the university, while administering the matriculation oath on the new students of the institution, urged the students to abide by the oath they had taken. He urged the students to take their studies seriously.(NAN)