WorldStage Newsonline-- Nigeria’s Super Eagles’ Technical Adviser, Gernot Rohr, has called up team captain Mikel Obi, midfielder Ogenyi Onazi and Victor Moses in a 28-man squad for the Poland and Serbia friendly matches in preparation for the 2018 FIFA World Cup to be hosted by Russia. Home-based goalkeeper Ikechukwu Ezenwa, who stood between the sticks for the very crucial last four 2018 FIFA World Cup qualifying games, leads the goalkeeping section. He will be joined by Spain-based Francis Uzoho and South Africa-based Daniel Akpeyi. Former junior international Kenneth Omeruo is also back among the defenders, as well as Joel Obi among the midfielders. Eagles’ Team B regulars such as defender Stephen Eze and forward Gabriel Okechukwu were also handed opportunities. Russia-based Brian Idowu, who scored against Argentina on his debut in a friendly in Krasnodar in November, has also got another call-up. Junior Ajayi of Egyptian side Al Ahly, who earned an Olympic bronze in Brazil in 2016, also made the list. Nigeria will trade tackles with Poland at the 43,000-capacity Stadium Wroclaw on March 23. Four days later, the Eagles will take to the pitch against Serbia at The Hive in London, the home ground of Barnet FC and London Bees. The matches are the first two in a list of six friendly games planned for the Super Eagles by the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) ahead of the World Cup in Russia. THE FULL LIST Goalkeepers: Francis Uzoho (Deportivo La Coruna, Spain); Ikechukwu Ezenwa (Enyimba FC) and Daniel Akpeyi (Chippa United, South Africa). Defenders: Abdullahi Shehu (Bursaspor FC, Turkey); Tyronne Ebuehi (Ado Den Haag, The Netherlands); Olaoluwa Aina (Hull City, England); Elderson Echiejile (Cercle Brugge KSV, Belgium) and Brian Idowu (Amkar Perm, Russia). Chidozie Awaziem (Nantes FC, France); William Ekong (Bursaspor FC, Turkey); Leon Balogun (FSV Mainz 05, Germany); Kenneth Omeruo (Kasimpasa FC, Turkey) and Stephen Eze (Lokomotiv Plovdiv, Bulgaria). Midfielders: Mikel John Obi (Tianjin Teda, China); Ogenyi Onazi (Trabzonspor FC, Turkey); Wilfred Ndidi (Leicester City, England); Oghenekaro Etebo (Las Palmas, Spain); John Ogu (Hapoel Be’er Sheva, Israel); Uche Agbo (Standard Liege, Belgium) and Joel Obi (Torino FC, Italy). Forwards: Ahmed Musa (CSKA Moscow, Russia); Kelechi Iheanacho (Leicester City, England); Moses Simon (KAA Gent, Belgium); Victor Moses (Chelsea FC, England); Odion Ighalo(Changchun Yatai, China); Alex Iwobi (Arsenal FC, England); Junior Ajayi (Al Ahly, Egypt) and Gabriel Okechukwu (Akwa United).