WorldStage Newsonline-- All is set for the arrival of a high power delegation of the Global Alliance for Vaccine and Immunization (GAVI) in Nigeria on Monday March 5th, 2018, to be led by its Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Seth Berkley. GAVI is the largest global platform, mobilizing global human, financial and logistics support and resources for Vaccine-preventable diseases. It will be the second time the GAVI CEO will be visiting Nigeria in nine months. He was in the Country in June, 2017. Addressing top management of the National Primary Healthcare Development Agency (NPHDA) in preparation for the visit, the Executive Director and Chief Executive, Dr. Faisal Shuaib disclosed that the GAVI delegation will be meeting with the Vice President, Professor Yemi Osibanjo, the leadership of the National Assembly, some state Governors, and the Hon. Minister of Health, Professor Isaac Adewole. The Chairman of the Northern Traditional Leaders Committee on PHC, Catholic Relief Service, the Nigeria Medical Association, Pediatric Association of Nigeria, Health Reform Foundation of Nigeria and Community Health and Research initiative are among other leading institutions and professional bodies lined up for consultation with the GAVI delegation during the visit. Dr. Faisal said that the GAVI visit would be in furtherance of the Global Advocacy for health and immunization financing. According to Dr. Faisal, a critical challenge of grave concern to the global Community is the current huge financial gap for child survival interventions, especially immunization which runs into billions of dollars. The Executive Director also expressed the optimism that the week-long GAVI visit would provide a new window of opportunity to strengthen the Nigeria-GAVI relationship and partnership focusing on child survival interventions particularly immunization financing. The GAVI delegation during its last visit to Nigeria, commended the new leadership of the National Primary Health Care Development Agency under Dr. Faisal Shuaib for the new initiatives and strategies put in place to ensure accountability, due process and zero-tolerance for corruption in the conduct of the Agency’s business. The Global Alliance for Vaccine and Immunization is the largest global platform, mobilizing global human, financial and logistics support and resources for Vaccine-preventable diseases.