WorldStage Newsonline-- Federal Government of Nigeria has challenged the new governing boards of Nigerian Customs Service (NCS), National Insurance Commission (NAICOM), Nigerian Export Import Bank (NEXIM) and Agriculture Credit Guarantee Scheme Fund (ACGSF) to enhance the implementation of its Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) and the various executive orders. Minister of finance, Mrs. Kemi Adeosun who spoke at the inauguration of the board on Thursday said, "The inauguration of the board is critical to driving our mandate." She said the reconstitution of the board provided a platform for synergy between member of management   for effective implementation of policies and programs of government. She urged the appointees to take pragmatic steps to reposition the respective institutions entrusted to them, saying, they should enhance performance through efficient management of accrued resources for national development. She said the mandate of NAICOM, NCS and NEXIM revolved around the five pillars of the Federal Government's Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) and the various executive orders, saying, “For the President to have chosen you is because of the trust he has on you.” Chairman of NAICOM board, Jideofor who spoke on behalf of the boards’ members expressed the delight of the members for the privilege to serve as governing members of the boards. He praised the efforts of the Federal Government to reposition the financial sector and increase revenue generation, saying it “is a catalyst for developing the Nigerian economy." He commended the Minister of Finance and her team of experts "for their various efforts at positioning the economy, particularly, the ERGP and VAIDS. He said, ”We are aware that the assignment before is a colossal task. But with shared responsibility, commitment, dedication and political will, we are sure to surmount all the challenges. "We pledge our unalloyed loyalty to the federal government on its drive towards elevating the Nigerian economy to a higher level and ensure that these various agencies deliver on their primary mandates and responsibility'" he said. "We will not betray this trust that has been imposed on us."