WorldStageNewsonlene---  The Lagos State Governor,   Akinwunmi Ambode has urged women to  be more active in politics so as  to be involved at the top decision-making levels, to drive national development. Ambode said this at the International Women’s Day celebration organised by the Lagos State Ministry of Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation (WAPA), in Lagos. He was represented by a former Secretary to the State Government, Mrs Adenrele Adeniran-Ogunsanya. ”Some measure of progress has been recorded in the country, due to the sustained advocacy by Government and non-governmental organisations. ”Our potential as a nation would be fully realised when the potential of women are fully harnessed. ”Our administration is commited to protecting and upholding the dignity of women in the State. ” We will also continue to support all agencies and institutions promoting the welfare and economic empowerment of women,” he said. Also speaking, Wife of the Lagos State Governor, Mrs Bolanle Ambode, urged women to press forward, challenge stereotypes and question old practices that are not women-friendly. ”We must remove barriers that stand in the way of the progress of women. “When we stand together, we can achieve anything and any obstacle can be pulled down. ”We must nominate and support women for emerging opportunities, whenever they arise. Supporting one another is a duty we owe and must carry out everytime for women to move on. ”Gender parity cannot be achieved overnight, it requires diligent committment from us, so that gradually, we move inch closer to our ultimate destination, ” she said. In her remarks, Dr Lola Akande, Commissioner, WAPA, said that the celebration should propel women to press for progress politically as another election year was approaching. ”We should remember that much of our progress and opportunities as women are determined by those in the corridors of power. ”This is why we need to increase our involvement in politics and earn our own deserved quota, ” she said.