WorldStage Newsonline-- The Federal Government of Nigeria has confirmed the approval of a new National Science, Technology and Innovation Road Map, 2017 – 2030 for Nigeria and the National Strategy for Competitiveness in Raw Materials and Products Development in Nigeria by President Muhammadu Buhari. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, SAN in a speech at the opening ceremony of the 2018 Technology and Innovation Expo in Abuja on Monday said the move was part of efforts to create a nurturing environment for technology and innovation in the country. “It is our intention as a government to utilize this initiative to stimulate global competitiveness of our raw materials, and support our ambitions for a diversified economy,” he said. “With the right environment, and policy support, there is no limit to how far Nigerians can go, especially with respect to innovation in science and technology. Equally worthy of note is the fact that Nigeria is a land hungry for innovation; every challenge that we face – in terms of security, infrastructure deficit, financial inclusion, and so on – is a natural laboratory for the manifestation of ground-breaking home-grown innovation.” “Science and Technology, of course, are key instruments for the realization of the objectives of our national Economic Recovery and Growth Plan, 2017 – 2020. Our goal of moving Nigeria’s economy away from a resource-based model to a knowledge-based model is one that we must take seriously, and the ERGP is a step in that direction.” FULL TEXT OF SPEECH I think Hon. Chief Ogbonnaya Onu deserves our applause for the creativity that brought this about, but most importantly for his passion. I don’t know how many people have spoken to him in the past few years. If you have, it is not possible for you to speak to him for 15 minutes without him talking about the importance of science and technology. So I was not surprised at all that he was quoting from both the Bible and the Quran to convince those who are left, who still do not believe that without science and technology there is very little that can be done. I really congratulate you, sir, on this very innovative and creative enterprise that you started today, and the work with the young people, the young scientists. Let me just say that the Ministry of Science and Technology deserve all of our commendation also for this visionary idea of a technology innovation expo. At home and abroad, Nigerians have always demonstrated remarkable ingenuity and inventiveness. And we know that with the right environment, and policy support, there is no limit to how far Nigerians can go, especially with respect to innovation in science and technology. Equally worthy of note is the fact that Nigeria is a land hungry for innovation; every challenge that we face – in terms of security, infrastructure deficit, financial inclusion, and so on – is a natural laboratory for the manifestation of ground-breaking home-grown innovation. As part of our own efforts to create a nurturing environment for technology and innovation in Nigeria, President Buhari has approved a new National Science, Technology and Innovation Road Map, 2017 – 2030 for Nigeria. He’s also approved the National Strategy for Competitiveness in Raw Materials and Products Development in Nigeria.  It is our intention as a government to utilize this initiative to stimulate global competitiveness of our raw materials, and support our ambitions for a diversified economy. In September 2016, the State House hosted the first Aso Villa Demo Day to showcase the innovation of emerging start-ups from around the country. Since then the World Bank has supported a batch of those innovators with grants totalling about $3 million – the first tranche of which has already been disbursed. I am pleased to note that the World Bank is committing an additional $3 million in funding for six technology hubs across Nigeria in our universities. The Aso Villa Demo Day, by the way, was a challenge for young people who were creating different types of start-ups, different types of technology innovation and other types of innovation. They were hosted at the Villa. The President was there, and some may recall that Mark Zuckerberg, the founder of Facebook, was also there. In addition, the Federal Government plans to strengthen the technology and innovation ecosystem by supporting the development of new innovation hubs, in partnership with the private sector, and this is well on course. We have recently concluded a competitive selection process for the private sector entities that will implement and manage the hubs. Each of these hubs will focus on solving the market challenges peculiar to the region of the country in which it is located. But perhaps more importantly we are collaborating with the Bank of Industry, with the civic hub, which is a private hub, and other private sector entities, to run a Presidential Technology Innovation Challenge in all Nigerian universities - public and private, and also some polytechnics in April of this year. Each university winner will be invited to an awards event hosted by Mr. President at the Villa. We are also setting up technology hubs in universities in the 6 geopolitical zones. I think it is important also, as we do this, to celebrate the creativity and innovation of many of our young Nigerians who are doing incredible things in science and technology, and especially in technology. Many are writing incredible software, many are doing very creative applications in various aspects of enterprise, and we must commend the excellent work that they are doing. Again, I must say that we must celebrate also the innovation and creativity of the Nigerian Military. The Nigerian Air Force has shown us what is possible where there is a drive to innovate. Only recently, the Nigeria Airforce launched its very advanced Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs). And these vehicles, they have shown perhaps some of the most creative in the world. These are cutting edge unmanned aerial vehicles, and they’ve just been recently launched as we know. Before then, they had manufactured a revolutionary version of diaphragms that are used in fighter jets. They are now in the process of commercializing the product, and we are told that several countries of the world have already expressed an interest in buying these diaphragms from the Nigerian Air Force. Military innovation is, of course, crucial. Indeed, the most transformational technologies the world has ever seen were actually military in origin. The Internet is probably the best-known example of the way by which military innovation, when taken seriously and commercialized, can actually transform science and technology. Most recently, on February 2nd, 2018, President Buhari signed a Presidential Executive Order, and this administration’s fifth executive order, for the planning and execution of projects and programmes, especially in the area of science, engineering and technology. Programmes that have science, engineering and technology components now have a special executive order. The Presidential Monitoring and Evaluation Council under the Chairmanship of the President will ensure the faithful implementation of this Executive Order. The important thing about this executive order is that it says now that wherever there is local talent in science, technology, innovation; we cannot get that talent from abroad. So, if we are procuring any type of engineering services, technology or science services, so long as there is local talent, it is the local talent that must be patronized. And we must not import or pay for foreign talent. That’s the content of that executive order. Now we should urge all Ministries, Departments and Agencies to align with it and ensure that the lofty intentions of that Order are met. Science and Technology, of course, are key instruments for the realization of the objectives of our national Economic Recovery and Growth Plan, 2017 – 2020. Our goal of moving Nigeria’s economy away from a resource-based model to a knowledge-based model is one that we must take seriously, and the ERGP is a step in that direction. Innovation will create jobs, it will attract investment, boost exports and it will grow our economy. This is apart from the positive impact that it will have on our image and perception around the world, and, of course, on our ability to project our soft power on the international stage. Ladies and Gentlemen, we are confident that, as a Government, especially one that has science and technology as a major pillar of its development efforts, that we are prepared to build a much better future, and that we will continue also to encourage the Federal Ministry of Science and Technology to play a very important role that it is playing at the moment in advancing the frontiers of Nigerian Technology. As contained in Executive Order 5, we will also establish Centres for Acquisition of Technology in each of the six geo-political zones of the country. We will also provide intervention funds that will strengthen Research and Development through training programmes and partnerships in Nigerian Universities and Polytechnics, Technical Schools and Trade Centres. Our goal is a self-confident nation, one that is able to quickly identify and take advantage of emerging opportunities in a rapidly changing and evolving world. The private sector has an important role to play in nurturing innovation in Nigeria by directly investing in it, and by supporting our Universities, research institutions, and, of course, our polytechnics and other centres of learning. Commendation must go especially to the Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas (NLNG) Limited, as a prime example of a company that supports innovation through its annual Nigeria Prize for Science and Technology, in collaboration with some of our leading Universities.  We must also commend Airtel and Sahara Energy for their support for the Aso Villa Demo Day and other creative endeavours that they have supported. Let me congratulate our young scientists who have emerged as the best in the 774 Local Government Areas of the country. I commend your creativity and competitive spirit. I am pleased to announce that the candidates who emerged first, second and third respectively in the final examination of the recently concluded Young Nigerian Scientists’ Presidential Competition have all been granted full scholarships up to the PhD level in any science-related discipline of their choice in any of our universities. The future of Nigeria belongs to our young people. It is our duty as a Government to create the enabling environment for them, not just to be nurtured, but also to grow to their fullest potential. Much of what needs to be done, especially in the areas of oil and solid minerals or land, are the resources that we have. But we know that the most important areas for us, the most important issues for us today are in developing a knowledge-based economy. And it’s that knowledge-based economy that would launch us into our next level as a nation, and to our next level even as a continent. And that human capital that is required is embodied in our youth; tens of millions of incredibly talented men and women constantly pushing and striving towards greatness; and we will not let them down. We will harness their energy and their talents and make Nigeria stand out for its science and technology. I am confident that working together, in pursuit of a common purpose, we shall succeed. It is on that note therefore, that I, again, commend the Ministry of Science and Technology and all of those who have collaborated in bringing about this very important innovation and technology day. And I hereby declare the 2018 Technology and Innovation Expo formally open.