The commandant Nigeria Defense Academy (NDA), Major General Adeniyi Oyebade has flagged off a free medical outreach to residents of Kutungare community at Afaka, Igabi local government of Kaduna state today. At the event, which formed part of activities lined up to precede the Passing Out Parade ceremony for cadets of 65 RC (Army) and 66 RC (Navy and Air Force) billed to hold 6th October, the Commandant said that NDA is concerned about the health and well-being of people living in the communities around it, hence the need to embark on the exercise. He further directed the medical team to refer any health challenge beyond the capacity of the outreach to the NDA Medical Center for further medical attention. General Oyebade who thanked the district head of the area for organizing his people to receive the free medical care, also gave an open door invitation to him to forward some of the needs of the community saying that the NDA is ready to offer more assistance to the community. To the cadets, the Commandant urged them to see the event as as an avenue to practice their civil/military cooperation training. He also charged them to see the need to take care of people in any community they find themselves after they leave the Academy. Over 1000 people benefited from free medical services and received treatment and drugs for various ailments. Drugs ranging from malaria fever, typhoid fever, diabetes mellitus, ulcers, PIDs, conjunctivitis were administered. The event also featured the distribution of over 400 free mosquitoes treated nets and issuance of 40 medicated eye glasses to members of the community. In his vote of thanks the village head of the community Yusuf Salihu thanked the Commandant for his commitment towards improving the health status of his people through the outreach. He promised that his people will continue to be law abiding citizens, adding that they will continue to support the activities of the Academy in order to sustain the long existing relationship between them.