Davido has canceled plan to perform at the Dreamville Festival  in Raleign, North Carolina, U.S. on Saturday due to “Hurricane Florence”. The festival which is the inaugural edition was slated to hold on Saturday at Dorothea Dix Park in Raleigh North Carolina. The one-day festival offers attendees a special celebration of music, culture, food and art along with performance from J.cole himself. Meanwhile, Davido was expected to perform alongside Big Sean, Young Thug, Teyena Taylor, Bas, Nelly and SZA. Also, the Festival creator J Cole, his manager Ibrahim Hamad and a host of artists from DreamVille Records were expected to thrill guests at the event. However, the U.S. National Hurricane Centre has warned residents of a triple threat of Hurricane Florence in Carolina describing it as `a life threatening storm surge’. The Hurricane is expected to hit Carolina on Thursday, and over 1.5 Million people has been evacuated since the announcement of  its advancement. The indefinite postponement of the Festival was announced by the organisers on their instagram handle @Dreamville and added that monis would be refunded to those that bought tickets. “Due to safety concerns regarding dangerous weather, we are extremely saddened to announce today that the inaugural Dreamville Festival 2018 been cancelled’. “Our team has been working tirelessly with officials from the City of Raleigh, along with our state and Federal partners, among others, to monitor the potential negative impact of Hurricane Florence’. “With the current weather-related information at hand, we have together decided to cancel this year’s event for the ultimate safety of both local citizens and Festival attendees’. “Rest assured we are doing everything our power to make this event happen at a later time and we hope to share details regarding a possible new event date as soon as we possibly can’. `Stay tuned to Dreamville fest’s Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram @dreamvillefest where we will continue to share updates in real-time,’’ the organisers said The organisers explained that they have been working with the City of Raleigh for more than Three years to bring this new music event to life. They added that the postponement of the events was one of the hardest decisions they ever made “All tickets holders will be 100% refunded for the cost of their tickets. “If you purchased your ticket online through our website, there is no action necessary on your end; you can expect to see the refund on your credit/debit card statement within the next 21 days.’’ 