WorldStage Newsonline— The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Trade Union Congress (TUC) and United Labour Congress (ULC) have kicked against the suspension of the committee charged with working out a new minimum wage for the Nigerian workers by the Federal Government. The members of the organized labour who are members of the National Minimum Wage Committee disclosed this at a press conference on Wednesday in Lagos following a the latest  statement by the Honourable Minister of Labour, Dr Chris Ngige who said a few days ago that the Committee should adjourn indefinitely to enable him do further consultations with the Government. Speaking on behalf of all the unions, President of NLC, Comr. Ayubba Wabba said the organized labour has run out patience with the Federal Government on the issue of a new minimum wage for the Nigerian workers. He called on the government to do all that is necessary to ensure that the Tripartite Committee is allowed to conclude its work within 14 days. “We would want to use this opportunity to let the Government and the whole world know that in the event that this demand is not met, we will not guarantee continued industrial peace and harmony,” he said. Wabba said the pronouncement by the Minister came at a time the Committee was finalizing its work of arriving at a definite figure for submission to Government. “We view his latest pronouncement with great concern, suspicion and outrage. This new antic certainly is not acceptable to Nigerian workers who had expected a  new national minimum wage since 2016 but who out of uncommon sacrifice and patriotism hearkened to government’s appeal and the process was delayed. “In light of this, his pronouncement is capable of rubbishing the work of the Committee as well as raising serious concerns about the readiness of the Government to accede to the putting together of a new national minimum wage. Beyond this, the Minister’s pronouncement has generated considerable tension among workers and provoked sharp reactions from the unions which justifiably argue that the Government is only out to waste the time of workers and is not prepared to pay a new national minimum wage. “For the sake of emphasis, the national minimum wage was not only legally due about two years ago, the increase in the pump price of petroleum products by this administration with fundamental consequential effects on the citizenry, the increase in electricity tariff, the massive devaluation of the Naira leading to a punitive exchange rate, and hyper-inflation, all of which led to a rising cost of living for workers and other Nigerians made a new national minimum wage not only necessary but urgent,” Wabba stated. He said the organized labour was saddened to note that the recommendations of the Technical Committee on Minimum Wage and Palliatives chaired by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation which was mandated to fashion out mitigatory strategy, policies, and programmes   to cushion the vagaries of the increase in the pump price of petroleum products have not been implemented to date. The NLC President said: “The present posturing of the Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr Chris Ngige who functioned as Acting Chairman of that Committee brings back painful -memories of precious time wasted, energies dissipated and hopes betrayed. Coupled with this, the Minister’s latest pronouncement goes to cast further doubt on the integrity of the government as well as underscores the inherent danger in doing business with Government.” The National Minimum Wage Committee was inaugurated in November 2017 but  commenced work in March 2018 with timelines to deliver on its mandate of arriving at a new national minimum wage in August/ September 2018. In the course of the work of the Committee, members had the ample time to consult.  In any case the Committee was satisfied that it received memoranda and inputs from 21 state governments, specialized Agencies of the Federal Government, the Organized Private Sector, Organised Labour and the general public. The Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr Chris Ngige had assured workers during the 40th anniversary celebration of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) in February this year that workers should expect a new national minimum wage in September this year. 