WorldStage Newsonline– A former deputy governor of Nasarawa State and one time minister of state for FCT, Senator Solomon Ewuga has called on his supporters to disregard speculations that he had dumped the PDP or defected to another political party. Ewuga declared that he still remained a bonafide member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He made the call in a statement signed by his Media Consultant, Mr Danjuma Joseph, a copy of which was made available to newsmen today at Akun, Nasarawa Eggon Local Government Area of Nasarawa State. According to the statement, the rumour is a figment of the imagination of the peddlers and reassured that he is still in the PDP. “In the past few days, Distinguished Senator Solomon Ewuga has been inundated with calls from friends and political associates seeking clarification on the rumours of his departure from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). “One wonders how Senator Ewuga could be expected to quit a house he jointly built with other patriots since 1999. “It is true that enormous pressure was brought to bear on Senator Ewuga to move to another party because of the glaring injustice meted out on him during the recent PDP primaries. “Senator Ewuga wish to maintain his earlier stand that he would not defect at this critical period that his party, PDP, needs his attention and support. “For those who know Senator Ewuga very well over the years, his struggles are usually not about his own person but equity, justice and fairness for all, especially the downtrodden masses of Nasarawa state. “Let it be known that his path in politics is in the hands of the Almighty God, who has indeed been very faithful and gracious to him. He is very grateful to God for this,” the statement read in part. It also explained that Ewuga’s vision in politics was a system that works for everybody, “a social and political environment where everybody, every section, and every tribe not only counts, but is also seen to count’’. “Leaders must be mindful of this, for any system built on anything less will not endure,’’ the statement emphasised. Besides, Ewuga thanked Gov. Umaru Al-Makura of Nasarawa state for giving him the discretion of leading the 2018 Pilgrims to Israel on Jan. 6, 2019. It however said that Ewuga had requested the governor to allow him (Ewuga) select a representative of good standing in the state. “And the Governor kindly consented to his being represented by Barrister John Mathew in the Holy Land,’’ the statement added. Ewuga expressed grateful to all members of his family, friends, political associates and admirers across the state and beyond for their uncommon concern. “He is indeed humbled by your kind words of solidarity and support,” the statement said. Ewuga had represented Nasarawa North senatorial district at the National Assembly on the platform of the Congress for Progressive Change (CPC), now All Progressives Change (APC). The 63-year-old politician is also a journalist, lawyer and administrator.