WorldStage Newsonline– Ex-leader of Niger-Delta militants, Asari Dokubo is locked in war of words with supporters of the leader of Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu, over the strategy the former is adopting in the struggle for the independence of Biafra nation. Dokubo had earlier expressed disagreement with the IPOB leader’s position that IPOB supporters and sympathizers should shun the 2019 general elections unless the Federal Government agreed to and announced a date for Biafra referendum. Dokubo however, in his reaction to the statement by Kanu, disagreed with the IPOB leader’s position, saying Kanu’s advice was suicidal since it would be tantamount to empowering those opposed to the Biafra aspirations with resources from the national treasury to frustrate the people’s struggle. Dokubo also highlighted examples of pro-independent agitators in Spain, Ireland and Palestine who contested and won political seats in a bid to promote their agenda rather than boycott general elections in their respective nations. IPOB deputy leader, Uche Mefor, in a statement on Wednesday, said Dokubo should keep the lectures on how to achieve the group’s objectives to himself. Mefor told Dokubo: “Whether Catalonia, Scotland, Northern Ireland, Hamas, used election to control their territories or not, that is their business. Their examples are incongruent and serves no purpose in our circumstance as it stands. On our part, IPOB has taken a decision to use civil disobedience manifesting in so many ways including election boycott and that we must do. “We do not believe in the recalibration nor extinguishing of our averred principles on the altar of political expediency and certainly, don’t need any lectures on what or how to go about the path we have chosen. “Hamas started by fighting wars, IRA started by fighting wars and same with Catalonia and even Scotland and these violences gave rise to their attaining political statuses they have today. Why then are those who claim to be Biafra freedom fighters not fighting like Hamas, IRA, etc if citing them is a standard?”