As part of efforts to enhance the businesses of Micro, Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (MSMEs in the country, the National Agency For Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) says it has de-centralised its regulatory and registrstion functions. NAFDAC Director of Public Affairs and Special Duties, Dr Abubakar Jimoh who disclosed this in Abuja said  the decentralisation would help to boost businesses of  MSMEs. Jimoh said that, MSMEs, being integral part of any economy, required the support and cooperation of public and private institutions to thrive. “In the past, registration process for new businesses was centralised in Lagos, but under our new leadership the process has been de-centralised to the six geopolitical zones and the FCT. “This is to create ease of doing business for certain categories of small businesses and help them to thrive. “MSME is the heartbeat of economies all over the world, that is the reason the Nigerian government gives more attention to small businesses, and NAFDAC is also contributing to the economy by helping them,’’ he said. He, however, said that, while the zonal directorates of NAFDAC had the mandate to register and regulate small businesses, the major operations of the agency were still taking place in Lagos. “The zonal offices only have the mandate to register small businesses like sachet water, snacks, chips and other edibles, the core regulation of medicines still takes place in Lagos,’’ he said. The director thanked the NAFDAC council for approving a new condition of service for staff of the agency and urged relevant government agencies to follow suit to boost staff morale. “It is a fact that we are poorly paid when compared with the risks we take, and it is encouraging that council recently approved a new condition of service for staff. “We only hope that the Salaries and Wages Commission will follow through with the approval so that our staff can be increasingly motivated to continue tackling the drug counterfeiters,’’ he said. Jimoh assured that the agency was poised to do better in the discharge of its duties in 2019 and warned  drug counterfeiters to desist from the illicit trade in their own interest.