WorldStage Newsonline– The Depot and Petroleum Products Marketers Association (DAPPMA) has suspended its earlier directive to commence shutdown of depots across the country from loading petroleum products effective from 12-midnight Sunday. In a statement issued around 1.20am Monday, DAPPMA’s Executive Secretary, Olufemi Adewole on Monday in Lagos said  a suspension of the directive had been agreed on following intervention by some stakeholders. According to the statement, “The union  has resolved to recall its disengaged personnel for 5-days to give the FG’s team the opportunity to conclude its process of paying marketers the full outstanding of N800 billion with the first trench being the amount already approved by the Federal Executive Council (FEC).” It was said to be following the intervention of well meaning Nigerians including the National Assembly as represented by the Senate Committee of Petroleum Downstream and constructive engagement of the Federal Government team by the labour unions most affected by the disengagement of our personnel, namely, PENGASSAN, NUPENG NARTO, and the PTD, DAPPAM. “The association has acted in good faith to avoid unnecessary hardship which could befall Nigerians during the yuletide season and we hope that government would make good its promise to see that those issues are resolved by Friday, Dec., 14, 2018 as promised,” the statement said. “To this, end, our disengaged personnel would be recalled on  Monday,  Dec. 10 and considering the reactivation time or hitherto shut down system, all depots with fuel stock should be fully active same day.’’ The statement said further that the conclusion of the debts payment would curtail the continuing wastage of public funds as interest accruing on the over N800 billion debt. “DAPPMA depots  are therefore advised to commence loading operations immediately and await further notification in respect of our long overdue payment,” the statement said. DAPPMAN late Sunday issued a directive to all members to commence shut down of loading of petroleum products from Midnight Sunday 9th, 2018 over N800 billion said to be outstudying debts owed by the Federal Government from subsidy, interest and forex differentials. The Federal Government of Nigeria had through the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) on Saturday promise to pay N236 billion out of N348 billion approved by the National Assembly as outstanding subsidy claims on Friday December 14th. But DAPPMAN said all the debts must be fully paid and the operation shut down would go ahead as all their staffs had been disengaged. “All DAPPMAN member Depots are not in the position to operate, hence will shut down all loading operation at Midnight Sunday 9th 2018,” the directive signed by Olufemi Adewola Executive Secretary stated. “The Association has decided to shut down to stop the financial hemorrhage of its members by the painful disengagement of its loyal workforce after over three year engaging the FG in the efforts to secure the payment of all subsidy induced debts owed marketers; efforts which till date have not yielded the desired results hence another approach.” The association said it reviewed an earlier planned strike on December 25, 2017 after FG intervention and promised to pay, but 12 months later, nothing had happened. It said it had duly notified FG through the Ministry of finance and the DMO of financial constraints and challenge of paying staff beyond 30 Nov 2018, except payment of all outstudying debts: subsidy, interest and forex differentials with summation calculated up to 31st Dec 2018.