WorldStage Newsonline– A banker and Account Officer with anew generation bank, Ojo Adefemi Adedoyin, who allegedly connived with one Favour Oriafoh, 30, to defraud a Hong Kong national, Xu Yue of £79,000 have been arrested by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). Their arrest came, following investigation into a petition received from the Hong Kong Police Force, that the young lady was a victim of romance scam traced to Nigeria. Admitting to the crime, Oriafoh who goes by the con name, Terry Mac, confessed that he opened a FaceBook account in the name, just to defraud whoever falls prey to his baits. “She had fallen in love with me as Terry Mac, a football agent,” he said. He thereafter took advantage of her love and defrauded her of the said amount, using the domiciliary account of one Adeyemi Hassan Adedeji. During interrogation, he confessed that the Banker, Adedoyin, provided him with the domiciliary account information to which the money was transferred to. “The agreement was that whatever funds were received through the account, the account officer and the owner of the account will be entitled to 15 per cent of the funds,” he confessed. The Banker has made useful information to the Commission and they will soon be charged to court. In another development, the South-East Zonal office of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, has raided the homes of two alleged internet fraudsters: Okechukwu Donald Akachukwu and a couple, Onuora Edgar and his wife, Onuora Adaora Lynda, at Independence Layout, Enugu. The raid was consequent upon the resolve by the Acting Chairman of the Commission, Ibrahim Magu to intensify the Commission’s fight against internet and cyber fraudsters across the country. Intelligence report gathered by the Commission regarding some people living in opulence lifestyle without any known means of livelihood revealed that the suspects have been defrauding many unsuspecting victims of huge sums of money through their nefarious operations and used such to acquire choice properties across the zone. A search conducted on the houses and premises traced to the suspects, revealed incriminating items which include: a Mercury Fluorescent lamp used in detecting fake currencies; suspected counterfeited foreign currencies; telephone handsets and other items suspected to be tools of their despicable trade. Other items recovered from the suspects include: a Toyota Venza SUV, ATM Cards from various banks, and an Apple Macbook laptop. EFCC said the suspects will be charged to court as soon investigations into the matter are concluded.