WorldStage Newsonline– Former Chief of Defence Staff, Air Chief Marshal Alex Badeh , has been attacked and shot dead, while returning from his farm along Abuja-Keffi Road. A statement by Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola Director of Public Relations and Information Nigerian Air Force, “It is with a heavy heart that I regretfully announce the unfortunate demise of former Chief of Defence Staff, Air Chief Marshal Alex Sabundu Badeh, who died today, Dec 18, from gunshot wounds sustained when his vehicle was attacked while returning from his farm along Abuja-Keffi Road. “On behalf officers, airmen and airwomen of the Nigerian Air Force, the Chief of the Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, commiserates with the family of the late former Chief of Defence Staff over this irreparable loss. “We pray that the Almighty God grants his soul eternal rest. Details later. Air Chief Marshal Badeh killed.” The Senate President, Bukola Saraki in his Twitter handle @bukolasaraki, wrote, “Nigeria has suffered another great loss with the passing of former Chief of Defence Staff, Air Chief Marshal Alex Badeh. My heartfelt prayers go to his family and our Armed Forces at this tragic time. May the Almighty grant him eternal rest. Amin.” Speaker of Nigeria’s House of Representatives, Rt Hon Yakubu Dogara‏ also twitted through @YakubDogara  that, “News of the gruesome murder of the former Chief of Defence Staff, Air Chief Marshal Alex Badeh, is both saddening and alarming. My thoughts and prayers are with his family and loved ones, and I hope that those responsible are swiftly apprehended and brought to justice.” Badeh was born on January 10, 1957 and retired as four star flag officer of the Nigerian Air force having served as the 18th Chief of Air Staff (October 4, 2012 – January 16, 2014) and the 15th Chief of Defence Staff of the armed forces of Nigeria (January 16, 2014 to July 13, 2015). Badeh in February 2016 was accused of financial misappropriation by the EFCC during his tenure as service chief. He was being prosecuted for the fraud allegations before his death.