WorldStage Newsonline– Wife of the president, Hajia Aisha Buhari, has suggested that Akwa Ibom State Governor, Udom Emmanuel and his wife, Martha, will soon become members of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Hajia Buhari made this known in Uyo while inaugurating an empowerment programme for over 11,600 Akwa Ibom women, sponsored by the future assured programme, in conjunction with the National Directorate of Employment (NDE). The president’s wife who arrived at Victor Attah International Airport said the situation there was an indication that the state would become an APC state. According to her “What happened at the airport to me is just mere politics, but when it comes to President Muhammadu Buhari, it is all about a movement, and we have Senator Akpabio in Akwa Ibom to lead the movement. “As you know, the president is a man of integrity, and for those who believe in his ideology, they should play politics with morality and integrity. What happened at the airport has shown that almost everybody in Akwa Ibom has entered APC, and soon Mr. and Mrs. Udom Emmanuel will join us. “It pleases me to be here to address you on this empowerment and training programme for women and youths, organised by the NDE in collaboration with my Future Assured Programme. “Since the beginning of this administration, we have empowered thousands of women and youths across the six geopolitical zones of the country. This has been in line with my pledge to contribute to reducing poverty to ensure that women are self-reliant.” She said: “Future Assured Programme contributes to this programme with the empowerment of 4,000 women. As you are all know that women economic empowerment programme cannot be over emphasised, it specifically addresses five goals of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), such as, poverty alleviation, hunger eradication, gender equality, provision of good jobs and economic growth.” She thanked Senator Godswill Akpabio for initiating the programme, and the Director General of NDE, Muhammad Lawan, for allowing it to succeed. Lawan thanked the President’s wife for improving the lives of the displaced, disabled and the disadvantaged. He hailed Akpabio and his wife for hosting the event. Meanwhile, Legit.ng had reported that the planned visit of First Lady Aisha Buhari to Akwa Ibom state to launch her pet project generated ripples of controversy as the state government alleged that the visit has a political motive. The project according to her, future assured, a nongovernmental organisation advocating the well-being of women, children, and adolescents in Nigeria. The government of the state accused the Senator Godwin Akapbio of hijacking the protocol marked for the visit of the First Lady to blackmail the incumbent governor and score cheap political gain ahead of 2019.