*We will sustain Lagos State Employment Trust Fund – Hamzat The aspiration of the Lagos State All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, to govern the state got a major boost yesterday, with Igbo residents picking him as their sole candidate for the top seat. At an event held at the National Stadium in Surulere, Igbo residents gathered in their large numbers to pledge their endorsement of Sanwo-Olu and his running mate, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat. The Eze Ndigbo of Lagos, Eze H.N. Ohazurike, also conferred Ugo Chinyere Eze title on Sanwo-Olu, which means the “greatest gift from God”. The event was attended by all Eze Ndigbo from all Local Government Areas in Lagos, each pledging to mobilise Igbo residents in their communities to work for the success of the APC candidate. Responding to the gesture, Sanwo-Olu described Igbo people as “critical stakeholders” in the Lagos project, promising to give Ndigbo a good representation in his government if elected. The APC candidate said the story of the commercial nerve-centre status which Lagos attained many decades ago would not be complete without the resilience of Igbo traders in the state, adding that the endorsement would be the beginning of a new mutually benefiting relationship between the government and Igbo community. Sanwo-Olu said: “I am expressing my profound appreciation to the Ndigbo community in Lagos for the traditional title bestowed on me, the Ugo Chinyere Eze. I thank you all from the depth of my heart for this honour and the endorsement you have just given me and my running mate. “We are starting another journey together in our effort to build a greater Lagos that will be prosperous for all residents. We will not discriminate against any ethnic groups in this journey. Every ethnic group represented in Lagos is a critical stakeholder and we will carry everyone along, as we have resolved to run an all-inclusive government. Just as you pronounced me to be gift from God, I promise to be a precious gift you will be proud of if elected as your governor.” Eze Ohazurike prayed for the APC candidate and his running mate, reassuring them that Igbo votes in Lagos would go for APC. The highpoint was the conferment of the traditional title on Sanwo-Olu. The event was witnessed by APC leaders, including the Director-General of Babajide Sanwo-Olu Campaign Organisation, Mr Tayo Ayinde, his deputy, Cardinal James Odumbaku, and APC Publicity Secretary, Mr Joe Igbokwe. WE WILL SUSTAIN LAGOS STATE EMPLOYMENT TRUST FUND – HAMZAT Deputy Governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat has said that the Babajide Sanwo-Olu administration, if elected, will sustain and expand  the Lagos State Employment Trust Fund’s initiative put in place by the current administration. Hamzat also reiterate that the Security Trust Fund initiative will form part of the focal areas of preference if the APC is given the mandate to continue by next dispensation in Lagos State. This was disclosed on Saturday by Dr. Hamzat, during a live programme on Television Continental (TVC), in response to questions and comments by callers during the programme. Hamzat, while emphasising the importance attached to infrastructural development by his party, said if the party wins next election, security, employment, provision of social amenities will be top on the agenda of the government. ‘”Coincidentally, our candidate and I understand the enormity of challenges ahead of us, and providentially, both of us have the experience and understanding of what will make our slogan ‘For a Greater Lagos’ a reality. “In view of the fact that private sector drives the economy of any serious nation, including the small scales enterprise, it becomes imperative to ensure the security of lives and properties, and by extension, make funds accessible to the artisans, traders and other genuine business men and women in those categories. We will therefore strengthen the State Employment Trust Fund to give access to credit to many more people in Lagos. The fund in 3 years has disburded funds to 8000 people out of over 40,000 people that applied. We will expand the capacity of LSETF to do more. The impact is real and we will make it better”, said Hamzat. On the issue of education, health and employment, he assured the residents that plans are underway to upscale quality of education, employment opportunities and provision of social amenities like water supply, among others. Responding to the insinuations made by the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party(PDP,), Mr.Jimmy Agbaje that his party was out to deliver Lagos from bondage, Hamzat described the statement as ” not only unfortunate, but borne out of ignorance”. “Please, where were these people when Ashiwaju Bola Tinubu was fighting for special status for Lagos state, the campaign Senator Oluremi Tinubu and our other Senators including our House of Representatives Members took to the National Assembly ? ” What was the contribution of PDP leaders in Lagos state, when former president Olusegun Obasanjo seized Lagos fund for years? Did  they talk? When we want to start the Eko Atlantic project, it took us six years to get approval before  President Umaru Yar’Adua of the blessed memory gave the approval. So, its not surprising that its only when elections come that the likes of Mr. Agbaje always remember that Lagos is in their imaginary bondage.”