WorldStageNewsonline– The spokesperson for the Peoples Democratic Party Presidential Campaign Organization (PDPPCO), Kassim Afegbua says promises by different key officials of the President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration, including Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, asking different regions to vote for Buhari so that they may have the 2023 presidential slot is nothing but reckless desperation to hang on to power at all cost. It noted that the ruling party has “resorted to trading with the lure of 2023 presidency, promising both the South East and South West respectively of the 2023 presidency in exchange for votes.” In a statement issued by Afegbua in Abuja on Sunday, the PDPPCO said the move was in desperation to hang on to power despite its abysmal failure so far. The statement said giving out two promises has exposed the insincerity and dubious intention of the Buhari-led Federal Government with the people of the South-East and South-West geopolitical zones with empty promises of bequeathing power to the two zones at the same time in 2023. According to the campaign spokesman, this is why Nigerians cannot take the APC and the Buhari presidency serious any longer, as we prepare for the 2019 election. The statement recalled that speaking on behalf of President Buhari in Owerri last week, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, told the APC campaign that the President would hand over the reins of power to a South-Easterner while calling on the people to support Mr. President. It pointed out that the Vice President also told leaders of the South-West to support the re-election of President Buhari so as to get the presidency in 2023. The statement added: “Two principal officers of the same government cannot be fooling Nigerians with vainglorious promises all in the name of re-election. “Such discordant tunes by the first and second citizens of our dear country have exposed lack of synergy and display of double standard and double-speak by chieftains of a government that has continued to display wanton desperation to hold on to power at all cost in the face of monumental failure. “How can the president be promising South-Easterners the Presidency when his Vice President is also promising the South-Westerners same position in 2023, all in the name of 2019 re-election?. “This is a clear show of deceit, desperation, crass insincerity and hypocrisy of the highest order. This is a clarion call on the South-Easterners not to trust such carrot being dangled before them as it has become obvious that this government neither fulfils promises nor keeps any covenant. “The same government cannot promise the Igbos and Yorubas at the same time if it were sincere about the shape of politics of 2023 presidency. “This government has an uncommon reputation for deceit, lies, insincerity and hypocrisy especially when it has to do with its 2019 re-election bid. “Nigerians are beginning to see through the pretensions and dubiety of purpose of the Buhari-led Federal Government; a government that has shown its incapacitation and leadership atrophy in the last three years and crippled the fabric of our collegiate solidarity and unity through nepotism and cronyism. “The president cannot, on the one hand, be playing God by decreeing which zone it intends to bequeath the reins of power, while his Vice President, on the other hand, is also promising his South-West zone of the same position. “This is a typical feature of power hawkers, in their desperation to hoodwink buyers to patronise their morbid products. “The Nigerian public must wake up to this double-speak and vote out this inconsistent government in 2019. “It is a responsibility that every Nigerian must buy into in order to save the country from further maladies and misgovernance.”