The African Institute for Mathematical Sciences (AIMS) – today announces the first cohort of the Small Research Grants in Climate Change Science: Dr. Daniel Akinyele of Nigeria, Dr. Lindani Ncube of South Africa, Dr. Ayansina Ayanlade of Nigeria, Dr. Adanna Henri-Ukoha of Nigeria, Dr. Timothy Dube of Zimbabwe and Dr Muhire Innocent of Rwanda. “Climate change is affecting all facets of society, contributing to lower agricultural productivity, a greater burden of diseases, and forced migration, among other consequences. African scientists, like the selected grantees, have a crucial role to play in providing solutions to the challenges posed by climate change. The small research grants program hopes to facilitate the provision of such solutions,” said Prof. Wilfred Ndifon, AIMS Director of Research. The AIMS Small Research Grants in Climate Change is part of the Mathematical Science for Climate Change Resilience (MS4CR) program which is made possible by a grant from Canada’s International Development Research Centre, with the support of Global Affairs Canada and administered by AIMS. The six grantees were selected through a rigorous review and selection process. Their projects will include among others: developing localized ‘clean energy’ models for off-grid applications in rural communities. This will increase access to a sustainable supply of ‘clean energy’, especially because such communities usually lack access to grid electricity or are unable to afford electricity. Additionally, off-grid energy reduces greenhouse gas emission through a reduction in the usage of hazardous fossil fuel-powered technologies (coal, natural gas, or petroleum) for energy production. Off-grid energy technologies can therefore significantly lower health risk, reduce energy prices and improve livelihoods. Additional projects will investigate the effects of climate change on the yields of important cash crops (coffee and tea) in Rwanda, and how best farmers in Nigeria can sustainably adapt to climate change etc. Over the next four years, 16 small research grants will be awarded to outstanding early career African researchers to fund projects that can contribute to strengthening climate change resilience on local and/or global scales.