Mr Peter Obi, the vice presidential candidate of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP)  has urged Nigerians to join forces in the fight against corruption in the country. Obi who was a former Governor of Anambra, made this known at the Youth Wing of the Christian Association of Nigeria (YOWICAN), National Unity Summit. The theme of the summit was: “The role of Youths in ensuring peaceful and credible elections in 2019”,. He said fighting corruption entails more than a public announcement, adding that Nigerians should look at the effect of corruption and deal with it because “its not rocket science. “It is important for every Nigerian to be involved in the fight against corruption in order for a corrupt free nation to be actualised. “It is important that everybody become part of those trying to stop it because it kills the three things that could make a society work. “It kills entrepreneurship, professionalism and hard work. It is not about shouting about it, but dealing with it,” he said. Earlier the National President YOWICAN, Pastor Nyeneime Andy underscored the importance of conducting a free, fair and credible 2019 election. “The starting point for the democratic process in any country is the conduct of peaceful and credible elections. “It is for that reason that we prayed for a credible elections as the heart beat of democracy. “It is through elections that citizens chose leaders who represent them and make decisions on their behalf. “The Youth have significant importance to strengthening election management bodies because of the central role they play in ensuring the rights of citizens to elect their leaders through peaceful and credible processes with integrity.’’ As the 2019 general elections draw nearer, he urged all politicians to stop using youths as political thugs. He said that politicians must engage the youths in productive ventures and inculcate in them good habits and discipline to enable them become good ambassadors in the society. In his remarks, the National President of the National Youth Wing Christian Council Of Nigeria (YOWICCN), Mr Abel Ogwuche, advised the youth to avoid being used as political thugs in the forthcoming 2019 general elections. “Youth have been vulnerable to such activities over the years due to the economic state of the nation. “Our youths should think more of being responsible citizens and embrace available skills capable of rendering them self-reliant, rather than wait to be hired by politicians to perpetrate atrocities during elections,’’ he said.