WorldStage Newsonline--- The Trade Union Congress (TUC) has expressed worry over the deteriorating security situation in the country, particularly the killing by Boko Haram and herdsmen and the recent abduction of innocent schoolgirls at Dopchi, Yobe state by Boko Haram. The TUC President, Com. Bobboi Kaigama who disclosed this in a communiqué issued at the National Executive Council (NEC) meeting of the Union in Lagos condemned the killing and abduction and urged the Federal Government to be proactive in handling the security challenges in the country.  "The NEC enjoined Federal Government to take drastic action to build citizens confidence in the system and ensure that the perpetrators of these heinous crimes are brought to book," he said. As the 2019 elections draw near, the TUC boss appealed to political leaders to ensure maintenance of peace and order amongst their followers. He advised governors owing workers to pay up and not to convert public funds and workers salaries for election purposes. The Union leader described unhealthy the current situation where NNPC is the sole supplier of fuel to the nation, thereby bearing the loss alone. "Consequently, TUC advises government to reimburse the NNPC so as to enable it to perform its primary obligation to the country. “ Federal Government should begin the immediate payment of all outstanding subsidy claims by the petroleum marketers under the PPPRA-administered Petroleum Support Fund (PSF)to avoid consequential job losses which the nation can least afford. These delays are also stopping the payments of wages/salaries in the downstream sector in a scary dimension which must not be allowed to degenerate further. It is expected that the Government would engage the Marketers as social partners under a special intervention arrangement that enables product marketer purchase foreign exchange (FOREX) at concessionary rates from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). This will keep the prices at their current levels as well as encourage more participants. “Government is called on to revamp the public owned refineries as well," Kaigama           stated. He commended the government for inaugurating the minimum wage committee and implored the committee to speed up proceedings to ensure that a new minimum wage take effect not later than the agreed third      quarter of the    year 2018. The Union leader urged the government to address the injustice being perpetrated by the political office holders who collect multiple pensions and gratuities while still serving government in another capacity. Kaigama also called on the government to declare emergency in the power section, as no nation can develop without stable power supply.  He said the call to hike tariff was not a solution to the power problem and that the union will resist any action in that regard.  