WorldStage Newsonline-- Nigeria has warned of international community of the great consequences if the efforts being put together to save Lake Chad from extinction are allowed to flag. Speaking at the opening session of the International Conference On Lake Chad in Abuja on Monday with the theme: “Saving the Lake Chad to Revitalize the Basin's Ecosystem for Sustainable Livelihood, Security and Development”, Nigeria’s Vice President,  Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, SAN said the “world will pay a steep price if stakeholders choose to resort to unilateral actions and the pursuit of selfish interests; if we collectively fail to rise boldly to this challenge.”  The conference was conceived for experts from around the world to deliberate on a wide range of issues relating to the current state and future prospects of Lake Chad: the Lake Chad water transfer and other interventions targeted at restoring the Lake; regional cooperation for peace and security; and funding and investment approaches. He drew attention to challenges facing the lake which was once the 6th largest lake in the world, providing freshwater and supporting fishing and livestock for centuries, but the river basin has now shrunk by 90 percent of its size, from a peak of 25,000 square kilometers to currently about 1,350 square kilometers. He described the development as existential threat to probably over 40 million people in the nations straddled by the Lake Chad, the Republics of Chad, Nigeria, Cameroon, Niger and the Central African Republic, who depend on this water body for their livelihoods. He said, “The implications of this are grave indeed. As the Lake has shrunk, and desertification has intensified, large numbers of people, once dependent on the Lake for livelihood - fishing, irrigation for farms, and drinking water for cattle, have been left bereft. “Migration and resettlement have intensified, farmers and fishermen have been confronted with leaner harvests, and pastoralists have been compelled to venture farther in search of food and water for their cattle. That foray deeper southwards has led to the deadly clashes in Nigeria and in parts of West Africa, between herdsmen and farmers.  Not surprisingly, the North East of Nigeria and the far west of Chad where the lake is located have in the past several years been the epicenter of the Boko Haram insurgency. The insurgents have been able to draw recruits from a desperate, idle and yet growing youth population. “But this ecological catastrophe is only one side of the story. The other side of this is the determined and commendable work going on to redress it and rewrite the fate of the Lake Chad Basin and its people.” He therefore solicited greater regional, continental and international support for this cause to safe the lake, saying, “We must as a matter of necessity also put greater effort into the inclusion and integration of local communities and civil society groups in the design and implementation of the interventions for the restoration of the Lake Chad Basin.” He assured them of the unflagging commitment of Nigeria - a founding member of the Lake Chad Basin Commission Nigeria has the largest number of people affected by the fortunes of Lake Chad, and perhaps the biggest contributor to its funding needs so far, - to supporting the implementation of the outcomes of this Conference, and the restoration of the Lake Chad Basin. He listed the multinational efforts at halting the decline of the Lake and replenishing it in the last 30 years to include: Plans by the commission's member countries to replenish the lake by pumping water from the Congo Basin through the Oubangi River and then on to Lake Chad; The Feasibility Study of this Inter Basin water transfer from Congo River to the Lake, which was supported by Nigeria with a grant of USD $5m; The approval and implementation of the Lake Chad Basin Commission's Strategic Action Programme (SAP) in 2008 and its implementation, the creation and fundraising for a five-year Investment Plan (2013-2017), aimed at safeguarding the ecosystem of the basin. “In 2012, the Lake Chad Basin Commission, LCBC, Summit of Heads of State and Government adopted the Lake Chad Basin Water Charter as the legal instrument for sustainable water management of the Lake,” he said. “All LCBC member countries have ratified the Charter, except Libya and Central African Republic (CAR) which are in the process of doing so. And most recently, LCBC-member countries have, with support from the World Bank and the French Development Agency, prepared the Lake Chad Development and Climate Resilience Action Plan (LCDAP) for the period covering 2016 to 2025.” He thanked the United Nations and its agencies, especially UNESCO, a co-organizer of this conference, the African Development Bank, the World Bank, and other development partners for the partnership to address the Lake Chad challenges. “Our gratitude also goes to member countries of the Lake Chad Basin Commission (LCBC), and of the International Commission of the Congo-Oubangui-Sangha Basin (CICOS), as well as other participating nations, for the collective resolve and political will to tackle the environmental challenges affecting the Lake Chad Basin,” he said. “Let me also extend appreciation to Nigeria's Federal Ministry of Water Resources and the Federal Ministry of Environment, who have jointly spearheaded the Nigerian Government's efforts regarding the restoration of Lake Chad.”