WorldStage Newsonline---   Nigeria’s Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo has expressed the government’s commitment to continuous strengthening of regulatory framework for good corporate governance, so as to achieve national competitiveness. Osinbajo stated this at the Corporate Governance Rating System (CGRS) certification ceremony organised by the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) and Convention on Business Integrity (CBi) on Thursday night in Lagos. The vice president was represented by Mr Chiedu Osakwe, Chief Negotiator, Nigerian Office for Trade Negotiations (NOTN). Osinbajo said government would strengthen regulatory framework through its regulatory agencies such as the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Financial Reporting Council and the Central Bank of Nigeria, among others to achieve competitiveness. He said that work at both public and private sectors should converge as good corporate governance to promote Nigeria competitiveness. Osinbajo said that the government had introduced initiatives such as Voluntary Assets and Income Declaration Scheme and Treasury Single Account to improve revenue and block leakages. According to him, government will continue to pursue policies that will ensure macroeconomic stability to attract local and foreign investors. He said that government would continue to promote private sector partnership to achieve the goals stipulated in the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP). He said that achievements and growth recorded by the present government were due to its partnership with the private sector. “Government is committed to fighting corruption, re-branding Nigeria to boost investor confidence.’’ Osinbajo said that good governance was an institutional framework that would promote growth and transparency in any organisation or country. He, however, commended the exchange for the feat aimed at promoting transparency among quoted companies and their managers. About 35 companies and 437 directors that made over 70 per cent threshold for CGRS process were honored. The companies were awarded the CGRS certification, while the directors were awarded certificates for success in the Fiduciary Awareness Certification Test (FACT), which was a key component of the CGRS.