WorldStage Newsonline--- In a bid to ensure safety on the nation’s airways, the House of Representatives on Thursday ordered its Committees on Aviation and Commerce to investigate and carry out critical audit of all registered aircrafts in the country. This is to ascertain their airworthiness, compliance with applicable operational methods, set safety standards and procedures. The resolution followed a motion on “Need to Establish the Technical and Operational Status of Nigerian Registered Commercial/Private Aircrafts to Boost the Safety, Protection and Confidence of Passengers Flying the Nigerian Airspace.” Moving the motion, Rep. Abubakar Amuda-Kannike (Kwara-APC), said that compliance with safety standards in the aviation subsector was sacrosanct, given its sensitivity as well as extremely low tolerance for margins of error. According to him, aviation safety measures are rather proactive measures to mitigate air mishaps as well as to enhance smooth operations and comfort of passengers. “Recently, incidents in the aviation subsector are indicative that a holistic review and assessment of the level of compliance and adherence to safety standards are pertinent. “Ideally, there must be periodic aircraft maintenance which includes overhaul, repair, inspection or modification of an aircraft or aircraft component and maintenance which incorporates such tasks as ensuring compliance with airworthiness directives. “There exists a high degree of complicity between airline operators in Nigeria and the regulatory bodies charged with the safety of airspace and passengers; particularly, the Directorate of Quality Assurance of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority,” he said. Amuda-Kannike expressed concern that non-compliance with applicable airworthiness requirements exposed consumers and equipment to high level risks, potential dangers and discomfort which could easily be averted by carrying out appropriate due diligence periodically. The motion was unanimously adopted by members when it was put to a voice vote by the Deputy Speaker, Mr Yussuff Lasun, who presided over plenary.