WorldStage Newsonline-- The Ondo State Governor, Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredolu has commissioned Akure Technology Hub at the Federal University of Technology, Akure as part of activities marking the Akeredolu led government one year in office. Present at the event described as the first of its kind in Africa inlude the wife of the Ondo State Governor, Arabinrin Betty Anyanwu-Akeredolu, the Vice Chancellor of FUTA, Professor Joseph Fuwape, top government functionaries, academia, and drew the attention of small Information Communication and Technology (ICT) startup firms among others. Addressing the gathering, Mrs. Akeredolu emphasized the importance of technology in building a virile society. According to her, there is the need to develop ICT with the aim to bridge educational gaps in rural communities. While expressing her passion for ICT and Solar Technology, Mrs. Akeredolu charged the academic community to develop ICT and begin to work towards deploying it to meet education and learning needs of youths in the core areas. “In this core area, we don’t have teachers. I believe we can use technology to improve the quality of teaching and learning and deploy it. Lessons in Mathematic and Physic for example can be relayed from this Tech hub to these core areas – that is my dream”, she added. Earlier in his address, the Special Assistant on ICT, Mr. Olumbe Akinkugbe noted that this was the first time that such a partnership between the government, academia and the private sector will be happening in Africa. He further expressed hope that the small start ups businesses will leverage on the opportunities being given them through the initiative and promote technology as the Akeredolu led government has promotion of education as well as technology as part of its cardinal programmes. In his remark, the Vice Chancellor of FUTA, Professor Fuwape also re-affirmed that the initiative is the first of its kind while also expressing optimism that the university community is interested in continous partnership with the state government towards building the frontiers of technology in the state. Prof. Fuwape who also commended Mrs. Akeredolu thanked her for all her breathtaking efforts at combating breast cancer in the state. The Convener for the Emerging communities, Joel Ogunsola who is the representative of Tech-Up noted that Akure Tech Hub was introduced to make the state capital one of the most preferred technology frontiers in Africa. According to him, 82 applications were received, 15 shortlisted and trained after which a pitch was organized to select the most innovative start-up. The climax of the event was the presentation of a total of $6250 and awards to the winning teams. LOAN TO MARKET WOMEN ACROSS THE 18 LGAS Menawhile, the Governor of Ondo State, Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredolu has disbursed soft loan at a single digit to 180 market women across the 18 local government areas of Ondo State at an event held at the International Events Centre (Dome), Akure as part of activities marking his one year in office. Governor Akeredolu who was ably represented by his Wife at the event, Arabinrin Betty Anyanwu-Akeredolu, reiterated the determination of his administration to continue to support women with such loans in order to improve their businesses. He further stated that the goal is to ensure that the women break the circle of poverty and attain high standard of living. Arakunrin Akeredolu also enjoined the women to make judicious use of the loan to improve their businesses and pay back within 13 months period given to them so that other women can also benefit from the programme. He noted that the gesture was to help solve the challenge most women face in securing loans as they are required to provide collateral in order to get help. In his address, the chairman of Micro Credit Agency Mr J A Folayemi ably represented by the General Manager of the agency commended the Akeredolu led administration for embarking on programmes that positively touch the lives of the people. While lauding the Governor for the initiative, he also charged the women to make use of the funds and pay back as at when due so that others can have the opportunity to benefit as well. Present at the event were Chief Judge, Mrs Oluwatoyin Akeredolu, the Commissioner for Women Affairs, Hon. Wunmi Olatunji Edet, Commisioner for Local Government and Chieftancy Affairs, Hon. Lola Fagbemi, Senior Special Assistant on Women Affairs, Mrs Titi Adeyemi, Special Assistant on Special Duties, Barr. Henry Adegbemile, Special Assistant on Gender, Research and Documentation, Mrs Temitope Daniyan other Top Government Functionaries.