WorldStage Newsonline-- President Muhammadu Buhari of Nigeria has called for international support of the efforts to restore the dying Lake Chad, saying the time to act is now. This is coming as Italian government pledged 1.5 million Euros for feasibility study of  how to transfer water from Congo River to Lake Chad basin. Speaking at closing of the three days International Conference on Lake Chad, on Wednesday in Abuja, President Buhari noted that the negative effects of the shrinkage of Lake Chad were indeed enormous, adding that the lake must be treated with urgency that it deserved. Buhari also charged leaders of neighboring countries of Lake Chad to show needed political commitment towards reviving it. He said, “Together let us share this mission of rescuing the Lake Chad Basin with a renewed vigor, determination and international collaboration as our inaction or delay will continue to accelerate the deteriorating standard of living of millions of our people with dire consequences on our continent and the World at large. “The time to act is now. The time to bail out the region is now. The time to show our humanity is now. “The Lake Chad is very dear to our heart as it is a source of livelihood to over 45 million people living in the Basin. This Lake, which is one of the oldest Lakes in Africa, is shared by Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, Niger and Nigeria. The people living in the Basin depend on the Lake Chad for Agriculture, Fisheries and Livestock for their economic well-being. “The Lake Chad region was formerly an “oasis in the desert”, a hub of economic activities and food security. The farmers, fishermen, herdsmen and traders were happy because business was booming. The happiness and contentment contributed to the stability of the sub-region. “Unfortunately, today that is all history. The “oasis in the desert” is just a desert now, due to the drying up of the Lake Chad. “ Meanwhile, Italian Government had pledged 1.5 million Euros to support the feasibility study of water transfer from the Congo River to the Lake Chad basin. Mr. Stefano Pontesilli, the Italian Ambassador to Nigeria, announced the pledge during the High-Level Session of Presidents of the Lake Chad Basin Commission (LCBC) meeting of member. According to Pontesilli, Italy was concerned about the humanitarian crisis revolving around the Lake Chad shrinkage, and “there is the need for immediate attention’’. He said the Lake Chad basin Water transfer was an opportunity to restore its potential. He said that Italy was ready to partner with the proposed “Transaqua Project” to see the success of the water transfer. The Ambassador recalled that the conduct of the feasibility study was awarded to a Canadian firm, CIMA International, which began work Oct. 13, 2009 for 28 months. He expressed hope that the Ubangi-Lake Chad Inter-Basin Water Transfer project would be technically feasible and economically viable with the Trsnsaqua project. Earlier, some African leaders pledged to support all programmes and policies to solve the humanitarian needs of the Lake Chad area. President of Gabon, Ali Bongo, said restoring the Lake Chad was a dear project that should be vigorously pursued for the betterment of the lives of those in the region. He said this commitment was evident in the establishment of a monitoring system for water losses through the help of the Gabonese Space Agency. He added that the Gabon government will be instrument to the Lake Chad fund and will be mobilizing US$50 million for the project. Bongo said his country had developed the adaptation to strengthen climate action to reduce the impact of climate change on the Lake basin region. “This initiative aims to support our state in the mobilization of resources capacity building and improvement of scientific and technical knowledge. I expect it to play a major role for the implementation of project in safe guard of the Lake Chad,” he said. Pontesilli commended the African Development Bank (AfDB) for financial support to the region, calling on other member-states to support the Africa of their dream. Dr Muhammad Ibn-Chambers, who represented the UN Secretary-General, Antonio Guterres, expressed sadness over the environmental tragedy that has led to violent extremism. He said the recent abduction of Dapchi schoolgirls was a matter for regret, saying that in spite of efforts of the multinational joint task force to maintain security, there were still skirmishes of abduction. Guterres pledged the commitment of the UN to work with the LCBC, Africa and international partners to change the narratives of the Lake Chad region. He called on all African countries to take decisive actions to save the basin and foster regional integration and economic cooperation