The Commandant General of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps Abdullahi Gana Muhammadu have directed for  the deployment of 19,997 personnel, Mobile Surveillance  Vehicles and Sniffer Dogs for the forthcoming Ekiti State Guber election. Gana gave the directives while addressing the Deputy Commandant General in charge of Operations Hillary Madu Kelechi on the need for effective deployment to cover all nooks and crannies in Ekiti state before, during and after the election. He ordered that, the deployment should comprise of personnel from Osun, Kogi, Edo, Ondo, Kwara, Headquarters and other neighbouring states for the purpose of maintaining of peace, law and order before, during and after the election. In addition to the operational officers deployed, Three (3) ACG, Six (6) Commandants along with other senior officers from the rank of DCC to ACC below are to support the DCG Operations in supervising the deployment of personnel to critical areas, identified black spots, as well as to all the critical infrastructure within and around the state in other to deter criminal minded persons that always take advantage of occasions like this to foment troubles in other to carry out  their nefarious activities. The Commandant General also approved the deployment of surveillance/Intelligence unit, SWAT, Medical and Disaster Rapid Respond Team, CBRN Unit , Special Forces and other specialised unit for the purpose of beefing up  security in and around the State. He charged personnel to work in synergy and collaboration with  personnel of sister agencies deployed for the same purposes; he cautioned that, the Corps will not condoned any act of indiscipline or sabotage,  as anyone found wanting or engaged in any sharp practices will face the wrath of the law, therefore, he charged them to be good ambassador of the Corps and be diplomatic in their approach. The Commandant General admonished Ekiti people to be peaceful and resolute in the forthcoming election noting that there is no gain indulging in violence act considering the fact that there is no alternative to peace. Instead they should come out en mass to vote for the candidate of their choice without fear of molestation or favour, for whatsoever mistake made now will affect the future of the State. He cautioned the youths  to shun act of violence, thuggery, rigging,  electoral malpractices, ballot box snatching and other social vices in other not to truncate the political and democratic processes. The law is not a respecter of anybody, therefore, whosoever engages himself in any act inimical to the peace of the State shall face the wrath of the law says Gana.