The multiplier value from the Presidential Fertilizer Initiative (PFI), a programme of the Federal Government of Nigeria designed to boost local capacity in the manufacture of fertilizer, has continued to impact various industries with the logistics and printing sectors recording major boosts. According to a statement signed by the Executive Secretary, Fertilizer Producers and Suppliers Association of Nigeria (FEPSAN), Alhaji Rabiu Kwa, the PFI programme, in addition to solving the hitherto intractable fertilizer supplier challenges in the country, has also boosted activities in allied industries, a development that has advanced the overall health of the national economy. Giving an example with the trucking sector, Alhaji Kwa revealed that more than 24,000 trucking movements were involved in the 2017 PFI programme, ferrying ram materials and blended fertilizer across the country. “PFI has considerably increased truck demands for dry cargo volumes that had decreased significantly over the past years. This increase in volume of dry cargo has attracted new private investors and reinvestments in the sub-sector. Abandoned trucks are being refurbished with support from the Logistics Provider for the PFI programme,” he stated. The FEPSAN boss also revealed that the initiative has led to the use of rail tracks from Lagos to Port Harcourt, Funtua, Bauchi, Jos, Minna and Kaduna as a result of which quick and urgent repairs of the tracks are being facilitated by the Federal Government, a development that will increase the rail network in the country for other purposes of mass transportation. The statement further highlighted the multiplier effects of the PFI programme on allied industries, especially those in the local bag making and printing industries, where more than 14 million 50kg bags were contracted out and delivered. “Apart from the boost it is providing to the bag making and printing industries, the PFI programme has also increased the utilization of polyethylene, a derivative of crude oil, another local raw material,” he said. Already, the programme has, in addition to the two ports and warehouses in Lagos used for the 2017 programme, the 2018 cycle has added a dedicated jetty and warehouse at the Intels Onne facility in Port Harcourt to receive imported components used in fertilizer blending process by the 18 participating Nigerian blending plants. He expressed the hope that with the 2018 PFI programme already in full swing, the multiplier values is expected to receive further boost given that additional blending plants have joined the programme, which potentially represents increase in value added to the overall Nigerian economy.