WorldStage Newsonline– The Federal Government of Nigeria has called for more foreign investments in the nation’s economy, particularly in the  water sector. According to a statement, the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Water Resources, Dr. Musa Ibrahim who is also the leader of Nigerian delegation to this year’s World Cities Summit, Singapore International Water Week and CleanEnviro Summit made the call in Singapore at a meeting with Singapore Minister of Environment and Water Resources, Mr. Masagos Zulkfili on 10th July, 2018. The 2018 edition of World Cities Summit, Singapore International Water Week and CleanEnviro Summit is a premier global platform for cutting-edge technologies and sustainability solutions. The Summit had more than 200,000 delegates from different countries and backgrounds who came together for the same purpose: to make the world a better place to live in. Nigeria’s participation was focused on the best solutions in scaling up water supply and sanitation to be able to meet the Sustainable Development Goals 6 (SDGs 6) on water supply and sanitation. Dr. Musa invited Singapore and delegates from other countries to invest in the WASH Sub-sector of the country as Nigeria is open for more foreign investments. Ibrahim said that Nigeria has developed a model for scaling up water supply and sanitation coverage through the instrument of Partnership for Expanded Water Supply, Sanitation and Hygiene (PEWASH). The PEWASH is a good foundation towards achieving goal 6 of the SDGs and ensuring availability as well as sustainable management of water and sanitation for all. Ibrahim was said to also secure assurances for capacity building for staff of the Federal Ministry of Water Resources on water related issues through the Singapore Cooperation Programme. In his response, the Singaporean Minister of water Resources and Environment  noted the submission on investment opportunities in Nigeria, but charged the country to ensure the necessary laws to guide investments in the water sector. The minister emphasized the importance of international relations and trade in spurring industrial growth, saying that the circular economy would not end at national borders due to the global nature of manufacturing supply chains.