WorldStage Newsonline– In order to ensure a peaceful 2019 general elections in Nigeria, Gov. Akinwunmi Ambode of Lagos State on Sunday appealed to religious bodies to help through constant prayers for the country. Ambode, represented by the Deputy Governor, Dr Idiat Adebule at a Muslim Leaders Interactive Forum said that religious organisations by their standing in society had enormous responsibility in ensuring that peace prevailed in their communities. The forum was organised by the Muslim Community of Lagos State (MCLS) with the theme,  “Make Your Life Count: Unity of Muslim Ummah in Focus”. According to him, religious bodies could impress upon their members on the need to eschew all forms of electoral violence during the elections. “There is the need for religious bodies and leaders to educate the people on the need for political tolerance to promote peace and tranquility before, during and after the elections,” he said. Ambode also expressed appreciation for the efforts made by religious bodies in supporting his administration and maintaining peaceful coexistence in the state. Also, Prof, Tajudeen Gbadamosi, President, MCLS, assured that the Muslim community in the country would play a significant role in the country’s bid to ensure a peace during and after the elections. “We are close to an election year. We know the peculiarities of this period — hate and inflammatory speeches as well as consequent killings and other damnable actions in the religious and social spheres. “As a religious group, we have a duty to ensure peace and harmony,” he said. In his lecture entitled, “Unity Among Muslims”, Shaykh Muslihudeen Kalejaye, said Islam was a religion that tolerated other religions and ordered its followers to respect and protect all humans. “Where there is no unity, it will bring about disruption, devastation and disputes,” he said. Also speaking, Dr Ridwan Olagunju of the Department of Islamic Law, University of Ilorin, urged all religious bodies to continue to pray for the peace of the country. Olagunju urged the Muslim faithful to adhere to the tenets of Islam as well as do good to make their life count. He also appealed to government at all levels to sought the advice of religious leaders in policy formulation.