WorldStage Newsonline– The Federal Government of Nigeria has reconstituted the Tax Appeal Tribunals in the six geo-political zones as well as Lagos and Federal Capital Territory. According to a statement, the reconstitution of the Tribunals is in accordance with Section 2(1) of the Fifth Schedule of the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) Establishment Act. The Minister of Finance, Mrs. Kemi Adeosun, who announced this on Thursday in Abuja, said the Tribunals would adjudicate over disputes arising from the operation of Federal Tax Laws and Regulations in the country. The Minister said, “The reconstitution of the Tax Appeal Tribunals is an essential part of building tax payers trust and confidence in the fairness of the system. “The Federal Ministry of Finance has undertaken a rigorous process to select competent persons on the basis of merit who will be expected to discharge their duties professionally.” She added that the Ministry sought nominations from a number of professional bodies and stakeholders, including the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN), Association of National Accountants of Nigeria (ANAN), Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria (CITN), Nigeria Bar Association (NBA) and the Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce & Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA). The Tax Appeal Commissioners, according to the Minister, are expected to hold office for a term of three years from the date of appointment. Each Tribunal is made up of a Chairman and four Commissioners knowledgeable in the laws, regulations, norms and practices of taxation in Nigeria, management and trade. *The Abuja Tax Appeal Tribunal is made up of Iriogbe Ayo Alice as the Chairman with member as Prof. Ishola Rufus Akintoye, Ajayi Julius Bamidele, Dr. Almustapha Aliyu and Nasiru Kuliya. *The Lagos Tax Appeal Tribunal is made up of Lassise-Phillips Olanrewaju Moshood as the Chairman with members as Dike Mark Anthony Chidolue, Sanusi Maijamaa Ajiya, Mrs Titilola and Rasaq Adekunle Quadri. *The North-East Zone Tax Appeal Tribunal – sitting in Bauchi, Bauchi State is made up of Bagoni Alhaji Bukar as the Chairman with members at Barr. Bashir Maidugu, Adamu Ismaila, Tijanayi Musa Isa and Mrs. Nafisa Shehu Awak. *The North West Zone Tax Appeal Tribunal – sitting in Kaduna, Kaduna State is made up of Umar Mohammed Adamu as the Chairman with members as Isa Kabir Dandago, Bayero A.S. Muhammad, Abubakar-Gwandu Sameerah and Dr. Ahmad M. Kumshe *The North Central Zone Tax Appeal Tribunal – sitting in Jos, Plateau State is made up of Barr. Richard Bala as the Chairman with members as Barr. Emmanuel Seungwa Ukera, Ogbaenyi Ivan Chikwendu, Abdul Zaidu Idde and Mrs. Atoki Dupe. *The South West Zone Tax Appeal Tribunal – sitting in Ibadan, Oyo State is made up of Ajibola Akinmade as the Chairman with members as Atitola Felix Bimbo, Falade Sufian Alani, Mrs. Queensley S. Seghosime and Princess Elemanya Ebilah. *The South East Zone Tax Appeal Tribunal – sitting in Enugu, Enugu State is made up of Chukwuemeka Eze as the Chairman with members as Ide John Udeagbala, Anyaduba John Obiora, Mazi Nnamdi Okwuadigbo and Obri Francis Ogar. *The South South Zone Tax Appeal Tribunal – sitting in Benin, Edo State is made up of Odiase-Alegimenlen Obehi as the Chairman with members as Ala Peters David, Mrs. Hilda Ozoh, Ajokwu Vitalis Friday and Otusanya Olatunde Julius.