WorldStage Newsonline– Nigeria’s National Economic Council chaired by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, SAN at its monthly meeting on Thursday received presentation on the gains of the National MSME Clinics by the. Minister Of State, For Industry, Trade And Investments And Special Adviser To The President On Economy and welcomed continuation and expansion of the scheme Highlights of the presentation: *MSMEs account for nearly 50% of Nigeria’s GDP and provide an estimated 70% of total employment. * Among the challenges of the MSMEs are: Access to finance, poor infrastructure, multiple taxation, limited business development support, inconsistent policies, access to market etc. *MSME Clinics – the Vice President initiated and guided MSME Clinics as a government strategy for making it easier for MSMEs to interact with Government. *The Vice President launched the MSMEs Clinic Project on the 24th January, 2017 during which representatives of key partnering FG Agencies interacted with over 303,000 participants across 17 States.  The Vice President himself personally attended the Clinics. * The Clinic demonstrated practical support to MSMEs, provided direct engagement with Regulatory and Service Agencies and crated awareness for locally made goods by MSMEs. * Office of the Vice President (OVP) and Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment (FMITI) oversee the MSMEs. *Partners of the MSMEs include; Bank of Industry (BOI), Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC), Development Bank of Nigeria (DBN), NAFDAC, SMEDAN, NITDA etc. *The MSME Clinics have visited 17 States so far and 7 upcoming States are slated for the remaining part of 2018. *Among the achievements of the MSME Clinic are: creation of One-Stop-Shops in Cross River, Abia, Kwara, Osun and Plateau State The recommendations which were welcomed by the council include; To extend Clinics to all States, and ensure continuity of programme objectives in States already visited; Maintain momentum of responsiveness of agencies and continued   establishment of One-Stop-Shops; and Establishment of shared facilities and trading houses.