WorldStage Newsonline– President Muhammadu Buhari has congratulated Dr Kayode Fayemi of the All Progressives Congress (APC) on his victory in Saturday’s governorship election in Ekiti state. The president, in a message by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina, in Abuja on Sunday, commended the governor-elect and all APC supporters “for the hard-fought victory after a dignified campaign”. He urged Fayemi and party members to be magnanimous in victory as “the incoming administration prepares to unfold a new lease of life for the people of Ekiti State through purposeful and responsible governance”. Buhari commended the people of Ekiti for their matured and peaceful conduct as they made their choice using the power of the ballot. He also lauded the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for adequate preparations and for displaying impartiality throughout the process. He commended the security agencies for creating the right atmosphere for the relatively peaceful conduct of the polls and urged them to sustain the peace. He also commended local and international observers and monitors for their vigilance and contributions towards the relatively hitch-free exercise. The president urged the losers to be gallant in conceding defeat and use constitutional means to settle whatever grievances they may have rather than resort to self-help. He appealed to all stakeholders in Ekiti to work towards a successful transition to a new administration “in the higher interest of not only the State but the entire nation and its fledgling democratic experience”. “In all this, the people of Ekiti State have spoken loud and clear, and democracy has won again,” the president noted. AMBODE CONGRATULATES FAYEMI Gov.Akinwunmi Ambode of Lagos State on Sunday congratulated the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Governor-Elect of Ekiti State, Dr Kayode Fayemi for his victory in the polls. Fayemi emerged victorious in the governorship election held on Saturday in the state. Ambode urged Fayemi to use his second coming to build on its previous achievements while he wqas the governor of the state. He also advised Fayemi to forge ahead with the quest to unite the Yoruba nation, especially, through regional integration and economic transformation of the Southwest geo-political zone. He also urged him to justify the confidence the Ekiti electorate had reposed in him by voting for him during the governorship election. Ambode alaso commended President Muhammadu Buhari, the leadership and members of APC and its supporters for the hard-fought victory. According to him, it is a testament to the fact that the electoral value of the party has not waned. APC CONGRATULATES FAYEMI The All Progressives Congress (APC) on Sunday, assured the people of Ekiti and Nigerians that it is best placed to move the country forward and resolve all seemingly intractable problems. The party gave the assurance in a statement issued by its National Publicity Secretary, Malam Bolaji Abudullahi, in Abuja, while congratulating Dr Kayode Fayemi, its candidate in the just-concluded governorship election in Ekiti. Fayemi won the election after securing 197,459 votes to defeat his closest opponent, Prof. Kalapo Olusola of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), who got 178, 121 votes. “We assure the people of Ekiti, and indeed Nigerians, that our party is best placed to move the country forward and resolve the seemingly intractable problems that have held us back,” the statement said. It commended INEC and security agencies for allowing the people’s will to prevail at the election which was contested by no fewer than 30 political parties. The party thanked the Ekiti electorate for voting en masse for its candidate, saying that their action demonstrated their trust and confidence in Fayemi’s ability to deliver on his campaign promises. It said that their action also demonstrated the rejection of the crude and pedestrian politics of the PDP. It lauded local and international observers as well as other stakeholders for their role during the election. The statement noted that Fayemi ran an effective and positive campaign focused on his agenda of rebuilding the state’s economy and returning its lost values of integrity, prudence and decency. TO RESTORE EKITI VALUES The governor-elect has described his victory in Saturday’s governorship election as one “  for reclaiming the land and restoring Ekiti values.” Fayemi spoke on Sunday while addressing the newsmen in Isan-Ekiti  shortly after he was declared the winner of the governorship election. He said: ” The victory of this election, I believe, is for   reclaiming   the land and restoring the values of our people. “Our values in Ekiti are respect for our leaders, commitment to our people, non brigandage, nor  criminality and so on. ” This victory is a victory for all, it is not a victory for only Gov.  Kayode  Fayemi, it is a victory for all the Ekiti people.’’ Fayemi also described his victory as  significant to  the future of democracy in Nigeria. “This was just not an Ekiti election, I want people to understand that this election has a lot of significance  to the future of democracy in Nigeria. ” The fact that we have witnessed a free, fair and transparent election process  has huge importance for similar exercises  like Osun State next door to  us and eventually the national elections in February 2019,” he said. The  governor-elect  thanked all the APC leaders, including President Muhammadu Buhari, National Leader of the APC,  Sen. Bola Tinubu, former governor of  Ogun,  Chief Segun Osoba, former interim Chairman of the party, Chief Bisi Akande,  as well as  party leaders in the state. He also thanked his family members, especially his wife, Bisi,  for their support  during the election campaign. VICTORY, CALL TO HIGHER SERVICE – APC UK The United Kingdom chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has described the victory of Dr Kayode Fayemi in the just-concluded Ekiti state governorship election as “a call to higher service”. The chapter stated this in a statement in Abuja on Sunday, following the announcement of the outcome of the election by Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The statement was jointly signed by Mr Ade Omole the chapter’s leader and Mr Jocab Ogunseye, its spokesman. The party described Ekiti people as the “wisest for electing a thorough-bred and respected individual” like Fayemi as their governor, adding that they would not be disappointed by the governor-elect. “We are confident that Fayemi will not disappoint the teeming followers and the general public of the state who have reposed their trust in his ability and experience to provide good governance for the state. “Fayemi has done it before; he has also worked in the higher level,” it said. It said that while he served as Minister of Solid Minerals and Steel Development, Fayemi ensured that the moribund Ajaokuta Steal Company was revitalised. It added that with Fayemi as governor, the people of Ekiti state should anticipate a new era different from the days of “stomach infrastructure”. The APC chapter stated that the people of Ekiti would now have an era devoid of hooliganism and deceit in governance that had eroded the value of true governance and era that would not celebrate mediocrity. “There is no doubt, expectations are great, the ceiling has been raised, the altitude is higher, and the people of Ekiti cannot afford to live in darkness as they have done in the past four years,” it said. It, however, advised the governor-elect to provide an all-inclusive government irrespective of party affiliation “now that the election had been concluded”. The chapter acknowledged that everyone had played a role in entrenching democracy in the state especially, and must therefore, be valued and respected. OBSERVER GROUP COMMENDS INEC An  official of the Alliance for Credible Elections, Dr Omilusi Mike,  ‎on Sunday commended the massive turnout of voters for Saturday’s governorship election in Ekiti and the transparency of the electoral process. Omilusi  gave the commendation in a telephone interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Ado-Ekiti. ” I want to sincerely commend  the turnout of the people from across the nooks and crannies of Ekiti  to vote for their chosen candidate. ” The  determination displayed by the people on Saturday was unprecedented and unbelievable. ” I saw the number  of people coming out from their villages and homes,  contrary to the rumour  of riot and crisis being spread across the state a few days to the election. ” It is obvious that the wishes of the people have prevailed especially at a critical period in Ekiti,” he said. YIAGA, APC, OTHERS REACT TO OUTCOME OF EKITI POLL Some stakeholders in Ekiti state on Sunday, expressed divergent opinions on the outcome of Saturday’s governorship election in the state which produced Dr Kayode Fayemi as winner. Fayemi of the All Progressives Congress (APC) won the election after securing 197,459 votes, beating his closest opponent, Prof. Kolapo Olusola of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), who got 178,121 votes. Youth Initiative for Advocacy, Growth and Advancement (YIAGA), Africa (YIAGA) said in a news conference in Ado-Ekiti that accreditation, voting and ballot collation complied with extant regulations, but pointed at some anomalies in the exercise. Executive Director of the organisation, Mr Samson Itodo, raised concerns about “secrecy of the ballot box”, vote-buying and bribery in the election. Itodo, however, commended Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on the timely commencement of polling and prompt announcement of results. He also urged Fayemi and APC supporters to be magnanimous in victory “For those candidates who did not win, we urge them to accept the results because they reflect the votes cast. “YIAGA Africa calls on all the candidates, all parties and all Nigerians to show political maturity and to maintain the peace,’’ he said. On its part, the APC leadership in Ekiti described the party’s victory as “well-won and much deserved.’’ In a statement in Ado-Ekiti, Chairman of the party in the state, Chief Jide Awe, thanked the electorate for the massive turnout and “voting conscientiously for the party.’’ The chairman also thanked President Muhammadu Buhari and other party leaders for their support in winning the governorship election. He, however, called for calm and appealed to the opposition parties and their candidates to accept defeat in good faith. “The APC thanks the Ekiti electorate for voting for the party in the keenly-contested election. “The Ekiti electorate have voted for the candidate of their choice who they consider as having a proven track record of performance and integrity, and who will bring about the kind of turn-around the state needs at this crucial period,’’ he said. Awe assured that the governor-elect would be magnanimous in victory and deliver on the expectations of the people. Mrs Bolanle Olatunde, a former Special Assistant on Diaspora to former former governor of the state, Chief Segun Oni, congratulated the governor-elect and urged him to put the welfare of the people at the heart of his programmes. She also said Nigerians must learn lessons from the outcome of the elections, especially on the need for “ anyone saddled with the position of authority to do the right thing at the right time.’’ “Even though, there might be claims of inducement here and there, some things I have learnt especially in Ekiti is that as incumbent, you should do the right thing in terms of discharging your duties. “While people still talk about stomach infrastructure and all that, this can only be sustained if your performance as governor is good and you don’t waste public funds on irrelevant projects. “Most importantly, be humble, because when you are humble, you will be promoted. “In these areas, rural people see and appreciate their governor interacting with the common man, but at the same time these people still go to the same market your wife goes to. “You should set up SMEs, community development initiatives and sustainable development projects that will bring true governance to the people,’’ she said. The police in the state also said the election was successfully concluded without reports of violence. The spokesman of the police in the state, Ikechukwu Caleb, told NAN that the election was peaceful and orderly, adding that no arrest was made during the exercise. NAN reports that the police had deployed 30,000 operatives, two helicopters and 250 patrol vehicles, including  Armoured Personnel Carriers, for the  election. The security operation for the poll was supervised by the Deputy Inspector-General of Police, Operations, Joshiak Habila, assisted by an Assistant Inspector-General of Police, four Commissioners of Police, eight Deputy Commissioners of Police and 18 Assistant Commissioners of Police. Mr Maxwell Adeleye, a PDP youth leader in  Ilogbo-Ekiti in Ido/Osi Local Government Area of Ekiti, however, described the conduct of the election as “ a show of shame and mockery of all tenets of democracy.’’ He advised the PDP candidate in the election to brace up for the challenges ahead, saying “ the victory of the APC was without jubilation on the streets.’’ Adeleye , however,  congratulated the governor-elect on his victory and wished  him well in the governance of the state. Dr Kayode Fayemi, a former Minister of Mines and Steel Development and candidate  of the All Progressives Congress(APC)  has won Saturday’s  governorship  election in Ekiti. Prof. Idowu Olayinka, the Chief Returning Officer for the election and Vice Chancellor of the University of Ibadan, said Fayemi polled  197,459 votes to emerge winner. The News Agency of Nigeria, (NAN) reports that Olayinka made the declaration at the headquarters of Independent National Electoral Commissioner (INEC) in Ado-Ekiti on Sunday. NAN also reports that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, Prof. Kolapo Olusola, came second with 178,121 votes. The PDP has, however, rejected the results, saying that the election was marred by irregularities and attacks of its members and supporters. The party’s agent at the collation centre, Mr Sunday Olowolafe, urged the commission to stay action on the declaration of a winner until a re-run was conducted where there were established cases of violence, vote-buying and ballot-snatching. Other results declared by Olayinka were Accord, 250;  Action Alliance, 41;  ACD, 1149; AD, 216;  ADB, 1082;  ADA, 107;  AGAO, 31; ANRP, 125;  APA, 1199;  and APDA, 464. Also declared were  APGA, 70;  ANPP, 14;  DA, 14;  DPC, 147;  DPP,181;  FJP, 42;  GPN, 20;  I.D, 31;, KOWA, 23;  LP, 280;  MMN, 35;  MPN, 23;  NDLP, 44;  NPC, 353  PANDEL, 74;  and PGC, 1242. The rest are DPA, 632;  PPN, 107;  SDO, 367;  UDP, 29;  UPN, 33;  YDP, 31 and YPP, 49. Olayinka said the  total valid votes in the election was 384,594 while  total votes cast was 403,451, with 18,857 votes  invalidated. Fayemi is expected to take over from the incumbent, Mr Ayo Fayose,  on Oct. 16, 2018.