WorldStage Newsonline– Nigeria Police Force on Thursday stormed the office of the President of the Senate, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki, to grill him over the April 5, 2018 bank robbery in Offa area of Kwara State. The Special Assistant to Senate President on New Media, Olu Onemola, confirmed the development on his Twitter handle on Thursday. This followed the failure of Saraki to honour the invitation extended to him by the police on the robbery incident in which 33 persons, including nine policemen, were killed during the raid of five banks in the town. The Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris, had in a personally signed letter, told Saraki to go to the Intelligence Response Unit of the Force for questioning on Tuesday. Saraki only offered another written explanation on the issue, saying it was sufficient. Dissatisfied with his response, the Police on Thursday then dispatched a team of investigators to Saraki’s office to interrogate him. Onemola tweeted: “Further to the invitation to the Senate President, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki, by the Police on July 23, 2018, and his written response to them on July 24, 2018 on why he could not see them that day — today at about 1:40pm, the Senate President met with a team of investigators on the Offa Robbery case in his office. “Dr. Saraki, used the opportunity to reiterate the fact that he has nothing to do with either the robbery incident on April 5, 2018, or any other criminal activity.” The Force Headquarters earlier said Saraki had a case to answer in connection with  the April 5 armed bank robbery in Offa, Kwara, which claimed 31 lives. A statement by the Force Public Relations Officer, Ag. DCP Jimoh Moshood, issued on Thursday in Abuja, referred to an online publication which reported that there was no evidence that linked the Senate President and Gov. Abdulfattah Ahmed of Kwara to the robbery that occurred on April 5. Moshood said the publication quoted the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) of the Federation as having made the statement in a legal advice in the matter. He said the DPP in the legal advice “did not restrain or restrict the Force from investigating further, the indictments against the Senate President, Sen. Bukola Saraki and the Governor of Kwara State, Abdulfattah Ahmed, by the principal suspects arrested in connection with the Offa bank robbery of 5th April, 2018’’. He also said that the DPP’s advice did not exonerate the Senate President in the matter, but that it only called for further investigations into the issue. Moshood said that it was in the course of further investigations into the case that a letter of invitation dated July 23 was sent to the Senate President to appear before the Investigation Team at Intelligence Response Team office, Guzape Junction, Abuja, on July 24 at 8 a.m. “Consequently, the Force is hereby re-affirming that the Senate President, Sen. Bukola Saraki has a case to answer by virtue of the facts that the statements submitted by the Senate President, Sen. Bukola Saraki earlier to the Investigation Team was not explicit and detailed enough, and was discovered to require further clarifications and interrogation, “ And coupled with the fact the Senate President, Sen. Bukola Saraki, in his statement, claimed that the full text of the statement of the suspects who indicted him in their confessional statements to the Police was not shown to him. “ It is, therefore, imperative for the Senate President, Sen. Bukola Saraki to report to the Police to make further statement after sighting the full text of the statement of the suspects.’’ The Force Spokesman further said that investigation was ongoing into the bank robbery and the indictment against the Senate President from the confessions of some of the arrested principal suspects. He said there was no  political influence or consideration in the matter.