WorldStage Newsonline– To enhance the capacity of journalists in the digital era, the British Council in Nigeria on 25 and 26 July 2018 in Abuja hosted a capacity building workshop for the media. It was the second in a series of training initiatives to address key issues affecting the media such as ‘Upholding journalism ethics in the age of social media- sifting facts from fake news; Conflict sensitive journalism; Equality Diversity and Inclusion in the Nigerian media; Collaborations in the media space; Storytelling in contemporary Nigeria; Child Protection and Impact of our activities on the environment. It was highlighted that the media’s role in educating, informing, entertaining and influencing public opinion in Nigeria had been more critical in recent times following digital access where everyone and anyone can assume the role of a journalist. The two day session featured thought leaders in journalism, branding and marketing who made presentations to media practitioners from different media houses. Arukaino Umukoro, CNN/Multichoice African Journalist of the year spoke on ‘Upholding journalism ethics in the age of social media – Sifting facts from fake news’ and emphasised the importance of verifying facts before publication in the media. Sharing some case studies where fake news had led to fatality, he encouraged the participants to be conscious of professional ethics in spite of the digital pace and pressure to simply break news. Another speaker, Lauratu Umar Abdusalam, Communication Specialist and Media Engagement Advisor, Palladium made a presentation on ‘Conflict Sensitivity in Journalism’ where she spoke on the need to be ethical and conflict sensitive while reporting the up-coming elections in the country. Speaking at the session, Lanre Phillips of Elpee Consulting, a Sales/ Marketing and Brand professional spoke on the ‘value of storytelling in reportage’ and shared the best ways of engaging audiences using storytelling, global best practices, trends among others. The power of collaboration with international media was led by Chiagozie Nwonwu, a Senior Broadcast Journalist at the BBC’s new Igbo Language service. He spoke on the benefits of collaborations within the creative writing industry and the media, and advised journalists to come up with collaboration ideas across their respective media organisations. Speaking on the reasons behind the training, Louisa Waddingham, Director of Programmes, British Council Nigeria, acknowledged the huge role being played by the media in Nigeria, saying, the British Council, the UK’s International Organisation for cultural relations and educational opportunities through different programmes had focused on creating opportunities for people in Nigeria. Waddingham said it included provision of platforms where knowledge could be shared amongst key stakeholders that will influence development. On some of the British Council projects in civil society and justice, Dr Bob Arnot, Programme Director, Managing Conflict in Nigeria (MCN)/ Rule of Law and Anti-Corruption (ROLAC) highlighted few of the development projects being executed to include working with the Police in Nigeria which had provided an opportunity for a perception change through different training initiatives. He also spoke about the opportunities to manage conflict within the traditional setting and how the British Council through the current European Union funded programme, Managing Conflict in Nigeria trained traditional rulers and their wives on how to manage conflict within their communities.