WorldStage Newsonline– The Federal Government of Nigeria and the United Nation Children Funds (UNICEF) have been called upon to collaborate and promote policies that will attract more women into the teaching profession in order to improve the enrollment and retention of girls in schools, particularly in the northern part of the country. Girl child education is less important in the northern part of Nigeria, no thanks to the belief in some quarters that it is a taboo for girls to mature to the age when they will start observing their menstrual periods at their father’s houses. This usually led to low enrollment, withdrawal of girls from school and early marriage. Former Vice Chairman of Lagos State Chapter of the Nigerian Institute of Architecture and Chief Executive Officer of Eden Group, Mrs. Titi Adeleye told WorldStage Newsonline that if the nation could educate more girl child, there we will be more female teachers and more female role models. She said Girl Child Education was so significant in view of the fact that female constitute about 50% of Nigeria’s population. “You can imagine if 50% of the population is not educated, at the end of the day, it will have a far reaching effect,” she said. “The girl child will have people that they can look up to that are teachers, that they can admire and they too can aspire to become teachers in future. “So, it is something that the government has to look into, to encourage the education of a girl child and it will have a multiplying effect as well. There will be more female role models, more female teachers, especially in the northern part of Nigeria. More have to be done to expose their female children and more government policies to encourage the training of female teachers and this will help the country as a whole.” She also urged that the Federal Government to collaborate with the UNICEF, adding that female education “needs to be high on the government agenda and should be publicised the same manner as other issues considered as pressing and crucial to development. “Secondly, women are the mothers, they are the caregivers, if they are educated it will resonate in all other areas- healthcare, education. If a woman is educated, she will be more hygienic, she will know how to educate her children. So the effects are more far reaching when a woman is educated. Girl child education has multiplying effects on the population and it will improve the enrolment and retention of girls in the northern schools.” On her part, the Headmistress L.E.A Primary School, Dutse Alahaji, Abuja, Mrs. Gloria Abu, underlined the importance of female teachers in boosting enrollment of girls in school, saying, “when you trained a girl child you have trained a nation. They say so because women have more passion for children. “Like if we are 100 staff in this school, the male are not even up to 10%. Actually female teachers have more impact than the male teachers.” She however advised that government should come up with policies to encourage teachers, saying, “Just like every other organizations, like nurses, lawyers, doctors, engineers, pilots and other fields, they should be well paid.” According to a UNICEF report, 40% of Nigerian Children aged 6-11; do not attend any primary school within the northern region where we have the lowest school attendance rate, particularly for girls. UNICEF is currently implementing a Girls for Girls (G4G) initiative to actualize the Girls Education Project (GEP) Phase 3 in northern Nigeria, to boost the level of enrolment and retention of girls in schools to complete primary education with Bauchi, Katsina and Zamfara states as pilot states. It had engaged 450 members of Mothers’ Association out of a total of capacity of 3,536 members of Mother Associations enhanced on strategies for increased enrollment and retention in 300 school communities in the production of reusable sanitary towels for adolescent girl members of G4G groups to help improve menstrual hygiene.