WorldStage Newsonline—It was a carnival like atmosphere took over the city of Yola, capital of Adamawa State on Saturday as former Vice President of Nigeria and leading presidential aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party, Atiku Abubakar formally declared his bid for the 2019 presidential election. The declaration event which took place at the Ribadu Square in Yola, the capital of Adamawa’s home state of Atiku saw leaders of the PDP from all the geo-political zones of the country and the National Working Committee of the PDP represented by its National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, on ground to grace the epoch event. While announcing his declaration to contest the 2019 presidential election, Atiku remarked that the current APC government had performed below par on managing the economy, keeping the country united and stemming the trend of wanton loss of lives in the country. “Fellow Nigerians, the government of APC has failed, it has failed to unite Nigerians” Atiku said adding “today we are more divided than in any other time in the history of this country”. According to him, “the APC government has destroyed our economy. They took over an economy with a growth of 7 per cent and brought it down to less than 2 per cent. Today we are witnessing the most insecure situation in Nigeria ever since APC took over.” He noted that more people have died in Nigeria under the APC than in Iran and Afghanistan even as the country’s economy continues to flounder. “Today we have the highest unemployment rate in this country. More than 10 million of our people have been made unemployed under the watch of the APC administration”. He however said that he is poised to work with other compatriots in the PDP to secure the party’s nomination for the next year’s election and rebuild the economy and reunite the country. “What the PDP is going to do is to restore our economy, restore hope of a greater Nigeria and ensure that we have security of lives and property. “I therefore appeal to all of you wherever you may be that it is time to now re-embrace the party that has given us unity, prosperity and security in this country. The Chairman of the PDP in Adamawa State Barrister Tahir Shehu also welcomed new defectors into the PDP.