WorldStage Newsonline– The national executive of the Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN) on Wednesday alleged the discouragement of stakeholders from attending NIPCO’s Annual General Meeting purported by some individuals through the spreading fake information. The IPMAN secretary, Mr Danladi Pasali in a communiqué issued after the National Executive Council meeting held in Abuja urged its members and other stakeholders of NIPCO to attend its forthcoming 2018 AGM. He said that the national body of  IPMAN felt it necessary to put the record straight for the public to know that some there attention was drawn to a publication in one of the newspaper dated 17th July 2018 on the false allegation discouraging stakeholders from attending the NIPCO’s forthcoming AGM of NIPCO. He said that the national executive of IPMAN was aware that the chairman of NIPCO Plc, Chief Bestman Paul Anekwe has complied with the necessary provision of law. He said that executive body of IPMAN under the leadership of Mr Chinedu Okoronkwo respected the views of members of IPMAN on freedom of speech; the NEC of IPMAN will not tolerate anybody to hide under the association’s name to commit unlawful action to the detriment of IPMAN name. According to him, the report also purported that IPMAN has petitioned the security agencies due to violation of rules. However, Pasali said that the NEC of IPMAN has not petitioned any government agencies, such as AGF, IGP, EFCC, DSS and Registrar General of Corporate Affairs Commission, Registrar of Security and Exchange Commission on violation of any rules or law for NIPCO not to hold her AGM. He said that the national executive committee hereby urged members who are stakeholders of NIPCO to attend the 2018 AGM of NIPCO at the designated venue as IPMAN as an association has no hand in the purported letter written by the some unknown individuals that was published. He said that it is also a statement of facts one Chinedu Ukadike, who is the arrow head in the purported suit  FHC/PH/CS/06/2018 was not an IPMAN member as he has no company registered  as independent marketers under IPMAN not to talk of been a shareholder in NIPCO Plc. He said, “NIPCO is a corporate entity with corporate entity with registered shareholders who are qualified to attend NIPCO AGM. “The suit was an individual against individual which has no connection with IPMAN, IPMAN is not a party to the suit.” The IPMAN scribe said that it was expected that some newspapers ought to have relied on verified document before entertaining such publication, adding that the publication was meant to drag IPMAN name into the mud. He said that while IPMAN recognizes the right of individual to seek redress in the court of law on any matter, this fundamental human right should not be abused by individuals. Pasali said that those media house should not drag IPMAN into the suit in which IPMAN was not a party to the suit. “IPMAN is of the opinion that newspapers should always verified every of their report before dishing it out to the general public,” he said.