Nigeria has been ranked as 115th out of 140 countries assessed in the 2018 Global Competitiveness Report (GCR) of the World Economic Forum. The report, which was released on October 17th 2018, shows improved performance across key enabling business environment indicators, and suggests an overall improvement in the country’s competitiveness. The GCR of the World Economic Forum is an annual ranking which compares the national competitiveness environment of 140 countries based on 12 pillars – four grouped under basic requirements, six under efficiency enhancers and two under innovation and sophistication factors. The index is supplemented by an executive opinion survey of the local business community and organised private sector. Beyond the rankings, the GCR offers comparative insights based on the competitive business conditions as reported by the organised private sector in surveyed countries. The following are a few insights we can learn from the 2018 report about Nigeria’s improving competitiveness: Commenting on the report, Dr. Jumoke Oduwole, Senior Special Assistant to the President on Industry, Trade & Investment and Secretary of the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (PEBEC), stated that “the global competitiveness report is a validation of the systematic work of PEBEC over the past 24 months – a work of collaboration across many levels of government to progressively and sustainably make Nigeria an easier place in which to do business.” The GCR 2018 is one of several globally accepted reports that have acknowledged the improvements in the Nigerian business environment. Recently, The World Bank also released the 2018 Subnational Doing Business Report for Nigeria, which recognised significant strides, with 29 states implementing 43 reforms over the past four years and moving country closer to the global good practice frontier. The World Bank described this as showing “how seriously the current administration is taking this goal” of improving the business environment. This further validates the commitment and efforts of the current administration towards making the country a progressively easier place in which to do business.