The Lagos State Chapter; the leading branch of the Nigerian Institute of Public Relations, is set to host the Third Lagos Digital Public Relations Summit, themed:The Future of the Communication Professional: Artificial Intelligence, Augmented Reality, Machine Learning &Data Driven Content, holding at the Sheraton Lagos Hotel, Ikeja,Lagos between Wednesday 17th – Thursday 18th, October 2018. The Lagos Digital Public Relations Summit is a two-day experiential gathering of communicators focused on achieving collective intelligence to equip and capacitate communicators in corporate and public affairs with high-level digital public relations strategies, tactics and how-to’s so they can do their jobs better and lift their social media campaign results. The Summit is open to Generation X and Millennials managing communications for government, corporate, media and non-governmental organizations to equip and expose them to contemporary techniques and glean new insights into the fast-growing digital media space for modern-day strategic communication practice.Interested participants can register by calling: 08020673883 or sending a mailto: info@lagos-nipr.org, for enquiry. The Chairman, Lagos State Chapter, Olusegun McMedal, said that, “The third Lagos Digital PR Summit intends to demystify the concept of machine learning and artificial intelligence (AI).With thousands of companies looking to incorporate AI into their brand strategy, this technology is already a major industry disrupter. However, the combination of human intelligence with AI capabilities is a great pairing and can lead to more informed decisions in all aspects of business. It is important that public relations practitioners are better integrated for the burgeoning digital media ecosystem”. The Summit is in partnership with Microsoft, ID Africa, Facebook, WhoGoHost, Bitesize, Techcity, I-Octane Digital Interactive, and Blueflower. There will be lectures, discussions, simulation exercises and case studies to equip participants with the know-how todrive positive impact in their organizations. Participants will earn a Certificate of Participation and the honorary Lagos Digital PR Ambassadorship. Established in 1963, the Nigerian Institute of Public Relations (NIPR) is the non-governmental, not-for-profit professional association of Public Relations practitioners chartered by law to regulate and develop the public relations, public affairs and communication practice in Nigeria with functioning Chapters in the 36 States of the Federation including Abuja.