WorldStage Newsonline—The Vice President of Nigeria, Prof Yemi Osinbajo has assured the victims of flood in Bayelsa, Rivers states that the Federal Government and State Government would ensure that they provide help and succour for them. In his remarks at St. John’s Catholic Church IDP Camp, Igbogene, Yenagoa, after his inspection of flooded areas in Bayelsa State on Friday, October 19, 2018, he said, “it is the duty of the Federal Government and State Government, to ensure that we provide help and succour for you, not just now while you are here, but more importantly when you have to go back home, because that resettlement is the most important part of it.” When coming from Port Harcourt, he said they flew over many of the areas that were flooded, and saw first hand, how bad the damage was. He said it was very terrible indeed. “Many homes are under water, farmland and businesses, and I was able to see, clearly what had happened, it is a very major disaster indeed,” he said. He said he came to inspect the flooded area with the Minister of Environment, Mr Ibrahim Usman Jibril and also the DG of NEMA – National Emergency Management Agency, Engr. Mustapha Yunusa Maihaja to assess for ourselves, what exactly was going on. “We want to know how bad it is, how many victims there are, the nature and extent of the disaster, so we can advise properly and give you the kind of comfort and succour you need. So that is why we are here and I am very happy that I have been able to see for myself,”. “I want to commend you for your spirit, for not giving up at all, but remaining resolute and confident. That is the true Bayelsan spirit, the true spirit of the Nigerian, we cannot give up and we will not give up. “I want to say on behalf of President Muhammadu Buhari, on whose instructions I am here, that we will stand by you and make sure we provide what you need. I have already been told that some people still need mattresses, nets and all that.  Happily, the Director General of NEMA is here and we will make sure that is provided. As for the cows and the meat, we will also look for a way of providing that because we cannot have rice, garri and beans without meat, there must also be meat. “So I want to thank you all for the very warm welcome and to wish you well, don’t worry about your current situation, definitely, we will make sure that you are taken care of and that when you go back home, you are re-settled well.”