WorldStage Newsonline– The Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) has urged the Association of Table Water Producers (ATWAP) to ensure strict compliance with the Nigerian Industrial Standards (NIS) to eradicate  waterborne diseases. Mr Osita Aboloma, Director-General, SON who made the plea during a one-day sensitisation workshop for ATWAP in Minna, Niger said, “Water is life. If this assertion is correct because of the importance of water in human life, much more resilience is, therefore, required for all manufacturers in this sub-sector. “This is to ensure that all elements of quality assurance are strictly applied to produce and supply not only good quality but safe water to all Nigerians. “Incidences of waterborne diseases must be eradicated. I wish to emphasise that strict compliance with relevant NIS is the bedrock for ensuring continual customer satisfaction and sustainability of economic growth.’’ Aboloma advised table water producers to be committed to ensure safety of lives and property, as it was a collective responsibility. He said that the workshop would bring about the culture of quality application and the need to show consistent compliance with relevant standards. The director-general said that the measure would also promote the economic well-being of residents of the state. “Our experience through our market surveillance and inspection have revealed that a good number of products put up for sale in the markets have not complied with the relevant industrial standards, thereby constituting a lot of risk to their purchasers and consumers,’’ he said. He urged table water producers to adhere strictly to quality requirements and shun substandard products that might ruin the economy. Earlier, Mr Badewole Sunday, the State Coordinator of SON, said that the theme of the workshop: “Application of Water Standards: A Critical Requirement for Quality and Safety’’, would ensure efficient service delivery and life improvement. Mr Abdulwaheed Abdulrahim, the State Chairman of ATWAP, dispelled the rumour that the table water produced in the state was substandard. “I can beat my chest that the table water produced in Niger state is one of the best in the country today,’’ he said. Abdulrahim appealed to the State Water Board to ensure good treatment of water as many of the table water producers depend on it. He urged SON and the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) to sanction table water producers, who refused to comply with the relevant NIS. ATWAP has 120 registered table water producers in the state