The Lagos State Government,  Mr.  Akinwunmi Ambode has  urged residents to subscribe to waste-to-wealth programmes in the state to drive effective solid waste management and hygienic environment. Ambode, who was represented by his Deputy, Dr Idiat Adebule, made the call at the 2018 World Habitat Day programme organised by the Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development in Lagos. The United Nations designated the first Monday of October of every year as World Habitat Day, to reflect on the state of towns and cities, and on the basic right of all to adequate shelter. The governor said that with a population of over 20 million generating an estimated 13, 000 metric tonnes of waste daily, there was the need to adopt global best practice such as subscription to reuse products. He said that the adoption of modern and globally acknowledged best practices would ensure effective and efficient waste management in a mega city like Lagos. ”I commend previous administrations for their efforts in waste management. However, continued population growth necessitated a refocus, and hence, the establishment of Cleaner Lagos Initiative. ”I need to emphasise that the best possible ways of managing solid waste are to reuse, reduce and recycle them. ”The waste-to-wealth programmes are of utmost importance in the state. As critical stakeholders, every resident should subscribe to reuse products in our households and sensitise other people to do so. ”We cannot afford the continuous generation of ‘one-time’ use and dump products given it’s negative consequences. ”The environment is for us all and it must be preserved for posterity. We must therefore, support the government as it strives to build a livable city that is healthy and sustainable, ” Ambode said. In his presentation entitled: “Municipal Solid Waste Management In Contemporary Nigeria – A Case Study of Lagos State”, Mr Idowu Salawu attributed the indiscriminate dumping of waste on the highways to the weakening of the Lagos State Waste Management Authority (LAWMA) by the new Lagos Environment Law. Salawu, an Environmental Consultatant and Development Strategist, advised that LAWMA be allowed to continue with the collection and transportation of both domestic and commercial waste while the Visionscape be restricted to waste collection only. ”Environmental hazards of varying magnitude dangerously threaten human and animal lives in Nigeria, Lagos in particular, due to urbanisation. ”The state government started to tackle the problem of waste by empowering the LAWMA to collect public waste competing with vehicles on the highways. ”Within that period, no fewer than 35,000 direct jobs with 100,000 indirect jobs were created, while LAWMA annually recorded a turnover of N30 billion and attracted foreign direct investment of about 50 million dollars, especially in recycling of plastics, papers, tyres and electronic waste. ”It was a good scheme, but with few challenges which gave birth to the Cleaner Lagos Initiative (CLI) by the present administration. ”One of the shortcomings of the implementation of CLI was the distribution of waste bins across the state, which people misunderstood. Now people are used to dropping their waste on the roadside. ”It appears as if government has become overwhelmed by the problem. What seems reasonable in the present circumstance is to empower LAWMA which also appears weakened. ”Also, there is the need to step-up public/private partnership in waste management system, sorting and disposal of waste. ”Beside the fact that this would help in cleaning up Lagos metropolis, it would also help in creating employment, most especially in the area of waste recycling, ” he said. In his remarks, Mr Rotimi Ogunleye, Commissioner for the ministry, said that with a population of over 20 million, the state government required huge funds for domestic waste management. ”There are policies, but it is in the area of implementation that we need to make a difference. Therefore, stakeholders and residents must adhere to these policies to assist government’s efforts, ” he said.