WorldStage Newsonline– The Federal Government of Nigeria has said that the Mining sub-sector remained the key to Nigeria’s industrial development. The Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Mines and Steel Development,  Dr. Abdulkadir Mu’azu who spoke at the three -day 2nd meeting of the National Council on Mining and Mineral Resources Development which held in Kaduna, noted that the meeting was an avenue for experts in the sector to brainstorm on ways to jump start the mining sector in the country. Addressing participants at the meeting, the Perm Sec argued that the mining sector and development of solid minerals in particular hold the key to raw material base needed for rapid industrialization; diversification of the economy, job creation and value chain. This, he added, was all that the Federal Government needed to diversified the economy and create jobs for the teeming unemployed youths across the state. He said, “the meeting is envisaged as a yearly institutionalised event to provide an venue for key stakeholders to meet, brainstorm, strategize and initiate the formulation of desired policies aimed at proffering solutions to the challenges facing the mining, minerals and steel sector. “It is worthy to note that, the mining sector and development of solid minerals in particular hold the key to raw material base needed for rapid industrialization; diversification of the economy, job creation and value chain addition. “The ministry has witnessed improvement in funding which partly facilitated the provision of soft loans and grants to industry participants as well as direct investment in the development of infrastructure”. This was just as the Director-General and Chief Executive Officer, Mining Cadastral Office (MCO), Mohammed Amate insisted that interference from state government  was part of the problems militating against the mining sector. He said the state governments in their quest to increase internally generated revenue, embarked on multiple taxation which had overtime discouraged investors in mining. He also added that mining operators’ failure to report accurate production and export figure was also not helping the sector. “Interference from states governments arising from the need to increase IGR, mining operators failure to report accurate production and export figures, challenges of funding leading to poor exploration activities by mineral tittle holders and dearth of local competent are the major drawback of the mining sub-sector”, he said.