WorldStage Newsonline– The Pan northern social political organization, Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) on Monday condemned the communal clash in Kasuwan Magani in Kaujuru Local Government of Kaduna State. The northern body commended the state government for imposing a 24-hour-curfew to avert possible spill over of the crisis to other part of the state. The crisis, according to the police, claimed 55 lives at Kasuwan Magani and the detail of the Sunday unrest in state capital was yet to be ascertained. This was just as the Archbishop of Kaduna Catholic Communion, Mathew Ndagaso in the wake of the unrest in the state, appealed for calm among residents of the state. He urged all and sundry to shun rumours and other negative vices, as according to him, rumour I worst than AK47 riffle. Ndagoso appealed to residents to eschew bitterness and live with one and other like true brothers and sisters. “Rumours mongering can cause mor dead than the sword and AK47. As a member of one united family, people created  in the divine image, we must seek ways of understanding of building bridges in one another based on solid foundation of truth,” the cleric said. The ACF through its National Publicity Secretary, Alhaji Muhammadu Ibrahim-Biu said the Forum was saddened with the spate of the clashes in parts of the region, particularly in Kaduna State. The northern body said the reprisal attacks in Kaduna on Sunday, was most unfortunate and totally condemnable. ACF called on Nigerians irrespective of religion and ethnic divides to close and ensure that Nigerians lives in peace. The Forum said, “Threats to our peace as one united people and a region over the years have affected our peaceful coexistence, unity, polity and socio-economic development. “We must therefore, come together and stop this unfortunate and condemnable carnage that does no one any good. Reprisal attacks are certainly not the best way to resolve disputes. “ACF therefore calls upon the warring communities in Kajuru and in other states to lay down their arms and embracae dialogue in resolving their disagreements. “Leaders of the various communities should also play a greater role in ensuring that peace and harmony are restored in the affected areas. “ACF urges the Security Agencies to swing into action and not only fish out the criminals who perpetrated these dastardly acts, but also ensure that they face the wrath of the law to serve as deterrence to others. “ACF equally commends the Kaduna State Government for imposing 24hour curfew in Kaduna and environs to stop further escalation of the crisis.”