WorldStage Newsonline– With 10.5 million Nigeria children out of school and Northern part of the country  accounting for the largest number, the UNICEF, Sultan Foundation for Peace and Development(SFPD) and Universal Basic Education Commission(UBEC) have announced plans  to assist the traditional rulers in the region to increase the number of children accessing education. UNICEF on Thursday in Abuja disclosed plans to organise a two-day conference of stakeholders from the  two critical zone in Northern Nigeria, North West and North East in Kaduna between 10th to 11th October, 2018. According to UNICEF, the final agenda for the action will be endorsed by the two Chairmen of the conference, Sultan of Sokoto for the North Zone and Shehu of Borno for the North East Zone with each of the Emir expected to sign commitment for Action to increase the number of children in school and enrolled. The Emir of Argungu, Sultan  for Peace and Development, Alhaji Samaila Muhammad lamented that the high number of Out of School Children in Nigeria had become a serious concerns for Nigeria. He said: “Education is paramount for our natural development and National Security. “Consultation with UBEC UNICEF Mass literacy putting a committee to organise a conference on out of school children between 10-11 October in Kaduna.” According to him, over 200 of religious leaders, traditional leaders and youths leaders of all northern states, President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the Senate President will discuss together find a way to work together to provide solutions as much as possible that every child in Nigeria have access to education. Executive Secretary, UBEC, Dr. Hammond Bobboyi said traditional rulers should be engage closely been vanguard in changing the mind set leading the process of getting children into school. Dr. Bobboyi, who was represented by Dr. Bello Kagara from UBEC, said “We UBEC, SFPD and UNICEF feels that engaging the traditional rulers who happened to be the custodian, culture, social norms, is very much important because this because social cultural factor is  major factor that hinder out of school children. “One may wonder why a conference with traditional rulers especially issues of out of school children, Nigeria has 13.2m children out of formal school system and this issues is of only of national concern but internally  its affecting the social economy development of the country and naturally affect the education of children. “At UNICEF our mandate is looking at the Rights  of children, the full rights of the child needs to be developed, full well-being and become active citizen of Nigeria. This includes the right to education for all children, it doesn’t matter who they are boys girls disabled which groups a fundamental right they should have. “More than 10m children Nigerian children cannot access this right. The rate Nigeria pair in the world, if Nigeria fails to address out of school children the world cannot address out of school children that’s the important of Nigeria in the Global stage. But so at local level this children are been deprived of the future, without receiving the skills they need the life skills to contribute to society. “The magnitude of the issues require agency and organisation to partner today not one Agency can bring the change today. We need to come together to achieve and bring the change, said Chief Education, UNICEF Terry Durnnian. According to the Federal Ministry of Education, Nigeria has 10.5 million children aged 6-14 out of school. Globally, Nigeria accounts for more than one in five out of school children, and 45 percent of out of school children in West Africa. More than 27 percent children of primary school age, and 26 percent of secondary school aged children are said to be missing out on education in Nigeria.