WorldStage Newsonline– Gen. Mohammed Saleh (rtd), an ally of President Muhammadu Buhari and former lawmaker, representing the Kaduna Central Senatorial District,  has said that the issue of automatic ticket was alien to the nation’s constitution and that of the All Progressive Congress. Saleh, who earlier pitch tent with the Senator Representing Kaduna Central, Senator, Shehu Sani on the direct primary mode of election, made u-turn to support the preferred candidate of the state governor, Mallam Uba Sani for the zonal ticket of the party. Uba Sani, at the Saturday’s senatorial primary was declared winner of that poll against the party’s insistence that the incumbent senator remained that party’s choice for the zone ahead of the 2019 poll. But at the presentation of results to the governor’s preferred candidate and others held at the late Gen. Usman Katsina House, Kaduna, the retired General, who was among the aspirants, insisted that he had to tow the lines of his party in the state and support Mallam Nasir el-Rufai’s candidate that won the poll. He described the  issue of “automatic ticket” as illegitimate in a democracy “since it’s  not anywhere  in our nation’s constitution, the APC constitution or even the Electoral Act”. He noted that as a loyal party member, they couldn’t have gone against the decision of the party, since the leadership and stakeholders of the APC had directed that states could adopt indirect or direct mode of primaries. He explained  that their  loyalty was to the national leadership of the party,  which gave State chapters  the democratic  power of choice between Direct and Indirect modes. Those presented with the results by the Chairman, APC Committee on election primaries in Kaduna State, Mathew Idouriyekemwen, are Mallam Uba Sani(Kaduna Central Senatorial District), Abdu Kwari(Kaduna North Senatorial District) and that of the governor, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai which was collected by the Secretary tovtue State Government, Alhaji Balarabe Abbas. The chairman described the primary election in the state as one of the  fairest and transparent and had the backing of the party’s national leadership.