WorldStage Newsonline– The Arewa Consultative Forum, a Northern Nigerian apex body has condemned the killing of an aid worker with the International Committee of Red Cross(ICRC) Ms. Hauwa Liman by the dreaded Boko Haram insurgents on Monday. The National Publicity Secretary of the ACF, Alhaji Muhammad Ibrahim-Biu in a statement in Kaduna also accused the President Muhammadu Buhari led Federal Government of not doing enough to rescue the aid workers after the brutal killing in September of another aid worker, Saifura Ahmed, by the same terror organization. Hauwa and two other aid workers with International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) were abducted by the terrorists about six months ago during an attack on the military base in Rann, Borno State and have since then been in their captivity. One of the aid workers, Saifura Hussaini Ahmed was killed by the terrorists on the grounds that the Federal Government (FG) failed to meet up some of their demands, the same fate befallen Hauwa. The northern body described as callous, barbaric and inhuman, the action of the group which it added was against the tenets of Islam. “The killing is clear desecration of Islam which preaches sacred inviolability of the individual,” it said. It said the Forum was saddened and pained by the execution of Liman by the dreaded sect. Specifically, the ACF urged the Federal Government to review its negotiation strategy to ensure the release of others, including  Leah Sharibu and the Chibok girls still in the captivity of the Boko Haram sect. The northern body  added, “Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) is saddened and pained by the sad news of the execution of another aid worker Hauwa Amina Liman by the Boko Haram terrorists on Monday. “The Federal Government’s assurances that it has been working with some friendly countries and other international organizations to save the lives of the innocent aid workers has not yielded  the desired result. “The FG should not wait for deadline from the terrorists before taking necessary actions to rescue them. “Any actions by the FG and the allies on this issue should be quick in order to assuage the fears of Nigerians of what may happen to those still in captivity. “ACF extends its condolences to the families of Hauwa and Saifura who were brutally executed by the terrorists for serving humanity and equally commiserates with the families of those still captivity.”