The  International Public Relations Association (IPRA) has conferred  2018 Golden World Awards (GWA) on the President of FC Barcelona (colloquially known as Barça), Josep Maria Bartomeu and the founder of PRNigeria media platform, Yushau A. Shuaib. The conferment took place on Friday at a ceremony by IPRA  in Barcelona, Spain. The Barca President received IPRA’s President Award for outstanding contribution of Barcelona Foundation to better world understanding through sports. He was honoured for leading the club to put into practice values of teamwork, empathy, and respect while providing places for reflection and peaceful coexistence. The IPRA also recognised the foundation for its humanitarian assistance to refugees all over the world. On his part, the Founder of PRNigeria, Yushau A. Shuaib received the Global PR Award for his book “Boko Haram Media War: An Encounter with the Spymaster.” The book provides crisis communication strategies for counter-terrorism campaigns and highlights the accomplishments of the Nigeria military in tackling the menace. He also received another award on Crisis Management for a campaign on Prison decongestion executed for the Nigerian Prison Service. The PR Campaigns for two awards received by Nigeria at the event were executed by a leading PR firm in West Africa, Image Merchants Promotion Limited which was managed by  Shuaib. The campaigns were executed during the sudden five-year retirement of Shuaib from the public service before his recent reinstatement by a court. Since 2016, Image Merchants Promotion Limited has consistently won the IPRA awards, especially in Crisis Management Category. It was the only African PR agency to receive two awards at the 2018 International PR event in Barcelona. Shuaib has led the PR firm in winning several regional and global awards since 2013 including African PR Excellence Awards in South-Africa, SABRE PR Awards by African Public Relations Association (APRA) in Morocco and Botswana and Golden World Awards in Qatar and Bulgaria among others. Other top winners at 2018 PR Awards included in-house and PR Agencies from 30 countries across the continents, including Russia, Japan, Turkey, United States of America, United Kingdom, Spain, South Africa, The Netherland, United Arab Emirates, Austria, Indonesia, Republic of Germany,  China, Argentina and Philippines. IPRA 2018: NIGERIA, SPAIN, UAE WIN DUAL AWARDS It was a celebration of excellence when 30 countries from different continents won awards at the 2018 Golden World Awards (GWA) of the  International Public Relations Association (IPRA) in Barcelona, Spain. Leading the multiple award winners at the event was the Republic of Russia which carted away 12 trophies. Others were Japan 11 awards; Turkey( 10);  the United Kingdom( 6);  The Netherlands( 4) and  Germany and South Africa received three awards each. Countries that received dual awards for the successful public relations campaigns from in-house and PR Agencies were Nigeria, Greece, Indonesia, Spain, Argentina, Philippines, United Arab Emirates, China and Austria. The single-award recipients were  South Korea, Latvia, Australia, USA, India, Taiwan, Hungary, Ghana, Israel, Romania, Singapore, Italy, and Peru. In the ranking of multiple award winners among the PR agencies, Dentsu PR of Japan led with 10 awards in different categories followed by FleishmanHillard with Headquarters in the United States of America which won 6 awards for PR campaigns in Russia while Hill+Knowlton Strategies of United Kingdom received 3 awards for its campaign in Britain and Netherland. The dual recipients, who received two Golden World Awards at the event were Image Merchants Promotion Limited of Nigeria, Creation PR of Britain, Turkcell of Turkey, Hollander en Van der Mey of Netherland, V+O Communication of Greece and QC Partners of Germany and Weber Shanwick for its projects in India and Taiwan. The single recipients were  Burson-Marsteller of South-Africa, Orange 360 of Peru, Graffiti PR of Romania, Global Media Alliance of Ghana, PR One of South Korea, navos – Public Dialogue Consultants of Germany, Djembe Communications of UAE, Fuentes Publicity Network of Philippines; Marco de Comunicación and LLORENTE & CUENCA of Spain, Ruder Finn PR of China; , Excel Communication & Perception Management, DeVries Global and Lobby PR of Turkey, Stein IAS of United Kingdom, About 30% of the awards came from inhouse PR campaigns by organisations mostly in Turkey, Germany, Indonesia, Austria, Argentina and Israel. Speaking on the 2018 GWA awards, the President of IPRA, Bart de Vries said the PR professional body utilises the help of a wide group of judges from around the world to do the preliminary online judging. Vries said: “In the spring, after the entries’ deadline close, each GWA judge is allocated several categories to evaluate online and thus help establish a short-list per category. Next, a group of 20-25 judges convened in person to pore over the shortlists during a single intensive workday. “For the 2018 GWAs, the judges came together in Brussels in early July from 22 countries for selecting the very best public relations campaigns from around the globe by maintaining a transparent quality standard across the board. Therefore, the annual IPRA Golden World Award initiative, established in 1990, remains the highest peak of international standard for recognizing excellence in public relations practice worldwide in a variety of categories.”