WorldStage Newsonline–  The Nigerian Tourism Development Corporation (NTDC) has advised Nigerians to visit various tourist sites across the country to boost domestic tourism. The Director-General of NTDC, Folorunsho Coker who made the call at the pre-exhibition programme organised by the Nigeria Travel Week in Lagos noted that the call was necessary because most Nigerians prefer to visit tourist sites abroad at the detriment of those in Nigeria. According to him, “when we do not visit the numerous tourist attractions that God has blessed us with then the country will not be able to create wealth for its own people.” Coker, represented by its Zonal Director, South-West, Mrs Annette Ibe, noted that the country was endowed with many natural and human resources. “We are endowed with waterfall, wildlife, cultural tourism, festivals, just to mention and this has made NTDC to rebrand its new master plan called ‘Tour Nigeria’ “We have more than 10 waterfalls in Nigeria; how many Nigerians are aware of this? “When we do not travel around the country; we lose opportunities to create wealth for these people. “For example there is no reason why the people at Erin-Ijesha in Osun State should be poor but what you find is that the people in that area are now selling slippers, pure water for their means of livelihood,” he said. The NTDC D-G noted that it was ready to increase its partnership with the private sector because part of its core function was to promote and develop tourism at both national and international level. According to him, this can only be achieved this `if we put our acts together before we can start inviting foreigners to come and see what we have, in the area of tourism.’’ Also speaking, the Chief Executive Officer of Avantgrade Tours, Mr Efetobo Awhana, said the Nigeria Travel Week was a project initiated to promote tourism in Nigeria. Awhana noted that the country had been a source market for most destinations around the world over time. “The project is aimed at encouraging Nigerians to patronise tourist destinations across the country to further boost that particular sector. “When you look at tourism, it is the biggest industry in the world and last year alone, tourism contributed 10 per cent of the 300 million jobs around the world. “So let us asked ourselves; how many of the jobs were provided in Nigeria.? Awhana said plans were underway for states to showcase its tourist asset with the support of the NTDC including a tourism roundtable for stakeholder to enable them chat a way forward for the sector.