WorldStage Newsonline– UN has selected Ericsson, a telecommunications company to supply peacekeeping missions around the globe with its Long Term Evolution (LTE) networks providing mission-critical communications capabilities. According to a statement from the company, it will be leading the implementation of mission-critical LTE networking equipment as well as professional services and training alongside its partner, Danoffice IT ApS. Ericsson said that the LTE networking equipment was from the 5G-ready Ericsson Radio System portfolio, including the MINI-LINK microwave backhaul solution, in combination with Ericsson Cloud Packet Core. According to the organisation, the LTE network will significantly improve existing communications by providing stable, secure, and future-proof mobile broadband services for peacekeeping troops, often operating in tough geographical terrain and conditions. Ericsson said that together with the latest mission-critical push-to-talk, data and video capabilities, specifically designed for professional use, communications would be enriched to embody the full multimedia experience. It said that currently there are 14 peacekeeping operations around the world led by the UN, and the missions typically had the permission to use radio spectrum for planning, coordination and implementation of their activities. Ericsson said that the first live UN Private LTE networks were expected to be up and running in 2019. According to the company, the UN ensures peacekeeping troops will have the latest communications systems and a cost-effective way to add new digital broadband services, such as HD video for real-time situational awareness by standardising its communications in this way. It said that mobile positioning and cellular Internet of Things (IoT), including asset management and connected logistics solutions are other ways for the troops to get the latest communication. A senior official with Ericsson, Helena Norman, was quoted as saying: “The digitalisation through broadband that is driving so much development for business and society also has great potential in peace building and humanitarian response. Norman, who is the company’s Senior Vice President and Head of Group Function Marketing and Corporate Relations, said that it was proud to be a supplier for the UN system providing communications capabilities that are crucial to their important work.