WorldStage Newsonline— The Not Too Young To Run movement has warned that any attempt made by Political parties to substitute names of young candidates that emerge successful in the just concluded primaries will attract serious political consequences. The group who disclosed this during a Press Conference on in Abuja expressed concern about the conduct of party primaries and Youth Candidacy recently conducted by political parties. The movement expressed worry about the manner some political parties conducted their primaries, whereby political parties made the cost of nomination forms too exorbitant for young candidates and the way some candidates were imposed on the people by party leaders. A member of the group, Cynthia Mbamalu, laments on the jeopardy by the conduct of some Political Parties during the primaries. She said, “While the Electoral Act provides for parties to adopt either a direct or indirect method of primaries, cross-cutting principles across the legal framework on Party Primary include the need for primaries to be democratic, open, transparent and inclusive. “These principles were however put in jeopardy by the conduct of some Political Parties during their primary election as observed by the Not Too Young To Run movement. A representative of the group Faruk Ibrahim said, “The movement observed with disappointment the high cost of Nominations fees imposed by most of the political parties with the All Progressive Congress (APC) and the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) taking the lead as the parties with the most exorbitant fees required from aspirants for their nomination to contest the primary election. “This remains worrisome as the supposed party in government and the major opposition party regardless of the advocacy and engagement by the movement for the parties to promote youth candidacy closed their political space by imposing fees that invariably excluded young people and women. “It is important to note that the high cost of nomination was not limited to the APC and PDP as we saw other parties follow suit with some difference in their party cost without due consideration to nomination fees that are reasonable and justifiable within our economic context.” Ibrahim said the trend of undemocratic primaries is therefore worrisome as more parties brazenly flaunted the Guidelines on the conduct of primaries designed to ensure transparency and fairness. On Exclusion of Young women and Young men, he said “As experienced by some of the young aspirants, parties were directly and indirectly restricting the participation of young women and young men. He said some few money bags or some Governors took undemocratic decision regardless of the wishes of the party members. “Some of the young aspirants were told with no regard to democratic principles that they could not purchase the party tickets because there was already an anointed candidate or preferred choice of candidate. “We have more reports of this incidence from young aspirants who intended to run under the APC in Kano, Ogun and Zamfara States, aspirants under the PDP in Kano State and FCT-Abuja, and another who intended to run under the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) in Anambra State. He noted there were issues of unjust screening of aspirants, “For instance, one of the young aspirants was screened out by the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) on a supposed claim of the party that he is young and have not contested the election before. Another Member of the movement, Hamzat Lawal, highlighted the demands of the movement as follows:“That the Political Party Appeal structures should ensure that the grievances of young aspirants during the primaries are as a matter of urgency heard and addressed immediately to ensure justice; “That Political Parties support youth candidates to ensure that they emerge victorious in the election; that the Courts treat as urgent, pre-election matters and expediently hears and give their decision on pre-election cases before the court. “That the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) makes public the report from the monitoring of the party primaries clearly highlighting the votes of each aspirant from the primaries; “That young men and women candidates who successfully emerged from the primaries remain vigilant to ensure that they are not substituted at the point of transmission of candidates lists to INEC; that voters should be guided by their conscience and do not vote for parties that do not represent youth interest; “That voters remain objective in voting for young women and young men with character, competence and capacity regardless of their party affiliation,” he said. Not Too Young To Run movement also reiterated its readiness in mobilizing 50milion registered young men and women youths to vote against parties that fail to uphold the principles of transparency and accountability in the candidate selection process.